 . Today , the Northern line is the busiest on the London Underground system , carrying 206 @.@ 7 million passengers annually , a level of usage which led it to be known as the Misery line during the 1990s due to overcrowding and poor reliability . 



 = Cultivated plant taxonomy = 


 Cultivated plant taxonomy is the study of the theory and practice of the science that identifies , describes , classifies , and names cultigens — those plants whose origin or selection is primarily due to intentional human activity . Cultivated plant taxonomists do , however , work with all kinds of plants in cultivation . 

 Cultivated plant taxonomy is one part of the study of horticultural botany which is mostly carried out in botanical gardens , large nurseries , universities , or government departments . Areas of special interest for the cultivated plant taxonomist include : searching for and recording new plants suitable for cultivation ( plant hunting ) ; communicating with and advising the general public on matters concerning the classification and nomenclature of cultivated plants and carrying out original research on these topics ; describing the cultivated plants of particular regions ( horticultural floras ) ; maintaining databases , herbaria and other information about cultivated plants . 

 Much of the work of the cultivated plant taxonomist is concerned with the naming of plants as prescribed by two plant nomenclatural Codes . The provisions of the International Code of Nomenclature for algae , fungi , and plants ( Botanical Code ) serve primarily scientific ends and the objectives of the scientific community , while those of the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants ( Cultivated Plant Code ) are designed to serve both scientific and utilitarian ends by making provision for the names of plants used in commerce — the cultigens that have arisen in agriculture , forestry and horticulture . These names , sometimes called variety names , are not in Latin but are added onto the scientific Latin names , and they assist communication among the community of foresters , farmers and horticulturists . 

 The history of cultivated plant taxonomy can be traced from the first plant selections that occurred during the agrarian Neolithic Revolution to the first recorded naming of human plant selections by the Romans . The naming and classification of cultigens followed a similar path to that of all plants until the establishment of the first Cultivated Plant Code in 1953 which formally established the cultigen classification category of cultivar . Since that time the classification and naming of cultigens has followed its own path . 


 = = Distinctive characteristics = = 


 Cultivated plant taxonomy has been distinguished from the taxonomy of other plants in at least five ways . Firstly , there is a distinction made according to where the plants are growing — that is , whether they are wild or cultivated . This is alluded to by the Cultivated Plant Code which specifies in its title that it is dealing with cultivated plants . Secondly , a distinction is made according to how the plants originated . This is indicated in Principle 2 of the Cultivated Plant Code which defines the scope of the Code as " ... plants whose origin or selection is primarily due to the intentional actions of mankind " — plants that have evolved under natural selection with human assistance.Thirdly , cultivated plant taxonomy is concerned with plant variation that requires the use of special classification categories that do not conform with the hierarchy of ranks implicit in the Botanical Code , these categories being the cultivar , Group and grex ( which are only loosely equivalent to ranks in the Botanical Code ) . This feature is also referred to in the Preamble to the Cultivated Plant Code which states that " The purpose of giving a name to a taxon is not to indicate its characters or history , but to supply a means of referring to it and to indicate to which category it is assigned . " Fourthly , cultivated plant taxonomy serves a particular community of people : the Botanical Code focuses on the needs of plant taxonomists as they attempt to maintain order and stability for the scientific names of all plants , while the Cultivated Plant Code caters for the needs of people requiring names for plants used in the commercial world of agriculture , forestry and horticulture . Finally , the difference between cultivated plant taxonomy and the taxonomy of other plants has been attributed to the purpose for which the taxonomy has been devised , it being plant @-@ centred in the Botanical Code and human @-@ centred in the Cultivated Plant Code . 


 = = Scientific and anthropocentric classification = = 


 The key activities of cultivated plant taxonomy relate to classification ( taxonomy ) and naming ( nomenclature ) . The rules associated with naming plants are separate from the methods , principles or purposes of classification , except that the units of classification , the taxa , are placed in a nested hierarchy of ranks – like species within genera , and genera within families . There are three classification categories used in the Cultivated Plant Code , the cultivar and the Group and the grex , but they are only loosely equivalent to ranks in the Botanical Code . 

 From the time of the ancient world , at least , plants have been classified in two ways . On the one hand there is the detached academic , philosophical or scientific interest in plants themselves : this groups plants by their relationship to one another according to their similarities and differences in structure and function . Then there is the practical , utilitarian or anthropocentric interest which groups plants according to their human use . Cultivated plant taxonomy is concerned with the special classification categories needed for the plants of agriculture , horticulture and forestry as regulated by the Cultivated Plant Code . This Code serves not only the scientific interests of formal nomenclature , it also caters for the special utilitarian needs of people dealing with the plants of commerce . Those cultigens given names governed by the Cultivated Plant Code fulfill three criteria : they have special features considered of sufficient importance to warrant a name ; the special features are the result of deliberate human breeding or selection and are not found in wild populations ( except in rare cases where the special features represent desirable part of natural variation found in wild populations that is not covered by a scientific name ) ; it is possible to perpetuate the desirable features by propagation in cultivation . 

 The terms cultigen and cultivar may be confused with each other . Cultigen is a general @-@ purpose term for plants that have been deliberately altered or specially selected by humans , while cultivar is a formal classification category . Cultigens include not only plants with cultivar names but also those with names in the classification categories of grex and Group . The Cultivated Plant Code points out that cultigens are : deliberately selected plants that may have arisen by intentional or accidental hybridization in cultivation , by selection from existing cultivated stocks , or from variants within wild populations that are maintained as recognizable entities solely by continued propagation . Included within the group of plants known as cultigens are genetically modified plants , plants with binomial Latin names that are the result of ancient human selection , and any plants that have been altered by humans but which have not been given formal names . In practice most cultigens are cultivars . 

 The following account of the historical development of cultivated plant taxonomy traces the way cultigens have arisen and been incorporated into botanical science ; it also demonstrates how two approaches to plant nomenclature and classification have led to the present @-@ day International Code of Nomenclature for algae , fungi , and plants and International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants . 


 = = Historical development = = 


 The history of cultigen nomenclature has been discussed by William T. Stearn and Brandenberg , Hetterscheid and Berg . It has also been examined from a botanical perspective and from the origin of the Cultivated Plant Code in 1953 until 2004 . 

 The early development of cultigen taxonomy follows that of plant taxonomy in general as the early listing and documentation of plants made little distinction between those that were anthropogenic and those that were natural wild kinds . Formal botanical nomenclature and classification evolved from the simple binomial system of folk taxonomy and it was not until the mid @-@ 19th century that the nomenclatural path of cultigens began to diverge from mainstream plant taxonomy . 


 = = = 10 @,@ 000 to 400 BCE – plant domestication = = = 


 William T. Stearn ( 1911 – 2001 ) , taxonomic botanist , classical scholar and author of the book Botanical Latin has commented that " cultivated plants [ cultigens ] are mankind 's most vital and precious heritage from remote antiquity " . Cultigens of our most common economic plants probably date back to the first settled communities of the Neolithic Revolution 10 @,@ 000 to 12 @,@ 000 years ago although their exact time and place of true origin will probably remain a mystery . In the Western world among the first cultigens would have been selections of the cereals wheat and barley that arose in the early settlements of the Fertile Crescent ( the fertile river valleys of the Nile , Tigris and Euphrates ) in the Western Mediterranean . Food plant selections would also have been made in the ten or so other centres of settlement that occurred around the world at this time . Confining crops to local areas gave rise to landraces ( selections that are highly adapted to local conditions ) although these are now largely replaced by modern cultivars . Cuttings are an extremely effective way of perpetuating desirable characters , especially of woody plants like grapes , figs and olives so it is not surprising that these are among the first known plant selections perpetuated in cultivation in the West . Migrating people would take their plant seeds and cuttings with them ; there is evidence of early Fertile Crescent cereal cultigens being transferred from Western Asia to surrounding lands . 


 = = = 400 BCE to 1400 – the ancient world : Greco @-@ Roman influence to the Middle Ages = = = 


 As early as the 5th century BCE the Greek philosopher Hippo expressed the opinion that cultigens ( as we call them now ) were produced from wild plants as the result of the care bestowed on them by man , a revolutionary view at a time when they were regarded as the special creation and gift of the gods . In devising ways of classifying organisms the philosopher Aristotle ( 384 – 322 BCE ) established the important idea of a fundamentum divisionis — the principle that groups can be progressively subdivided . This has been assumed in biological classification ever since and is congruent with the relatively recent idea of evolution as descent with modification . All biological classification follows this principle of groups within groups , known as a nested hierarchy , but this form of classification does not necessarily presuppose evolution . 

 The earliest scientific ( rather than utilitarian ) approach to plants is attributed to Aristotle 's student Theophrastus ( 371 – 286 BCE ) , known as the " father of botany " . In his Enquiry into Plants Theophrastus described 480 kinds of plant , dividing the plant kingdom into trees , shrubs , undershrubs and herbs with further subdivision into wild and cultivated , flowering and non @-@ flowering , deciduous or evergreen . 

 The utilitarian approach , classifying plants according to their medicinal properties , is exemplified by the work of Roman nobleman , scientist and historian , Pliny the Elder ( 29 – 79 CE ) author of Naturalis historiae . " Cultivars " listed here are named after people , places or special plant characteristics . Most notable is the work of Dioscorides ( ca.40 – ca.90 CE ) a Greek doctor who worked with the Roman army . His five @-@ volume Materia Medica was a forerunner of the herbal which led to the modern pharmacopoeia . This work was endlessly plagiarised by later herbals including those printed between about 1470 and 1670 CE : it listed 600 to 1000 different kinds of plants including the cultigens Gallica , Centifolia , the rose of uncertain origin known as Alba and other rose cultivars grown by the Romans . 

 The first record of a named cultigen occurs in De Agri Cultura. written about 160 BCE by Roman statesman Cato the Elder ( 234 – 149 BCE ) in a list that includes 120 kinds ( cultivars ) of figs , grapes , apples and olives . The names are presented in a way that implies that they would have been familiar to fellow Romans . The " cultivar " names were mostly of one word and denoted the provenance of the cultivar ( the geographical origin of the place where the plant selections were made ) . Writers up to the 15th century added little to this early work . In the Middle Ages the book of hours , early herbals , illuminated manuscripts and economic records indicate that plants grown by the Romans found their way into monastery gardens . For example , in 827 CE the following herbs were mentioned in the poem Hortulus by Walafrid Strabo as growing in the monastery garden of St Gallen in Switzerland : sage , rue , southernwood , wormwood , horehound , fennel , German iris , lovage , chervil , Madonna lily , opium poppy , clary , mint , betony , agrimony , catmint , radish , gallica rose , bottle gourd and melon . It seems likely that aromatic and culinary herbs were quite widespread and similar lists of plants occur in records of plants grown in Villa gardens at the time of Charlemagne ( 742 – 814 CE ) . 


 = = = 1400 to 1700 – Renaissance , imperial expansion , herbals = = = 


 The revival of learning during the Renaissance reinvigorated the study of plants and their classification . From about 1400 CE European expansion established Latin as the common language of scholars and it was adopted for biological nomenclature . Then , from about 1500 CE , the publication of herbals ( books often illustrated with woodcuts describing the appearance , medicinal properties , and other characteristics of plants used in herbal medicine ) extended the formal documentation of plants and by the late 16th century the number of different plant kinds described in Europe had risen to about 4 @,@ 000 . In 1623 Gaspard Bauhin published his Pinax theatre botanici an attempt at a comprehensive compilation of all plants known at that time : it included about 6000 kinds . The combined works of a German physician and botanist Valerius Cordus ( 1515 – 1544 CE ) which were published in 1562 included many named " cultivars " including 30 apples and 49 pears , presumably local German selections . English herbalist John Parkinson 's Paradisi in Sole ... ( 1629 ) lists 57 apple " cultivars " , 62 pears , 61 plums , 35 cherries and 22 peaches . 

 With increasing trade in economic and medicinal plants the need for a more comprehensive classification system increased . Up to about 1650 CE plants had been grouped either alphabetically or according to utilitarian folk taxonomy – by their medicinal uses or whether they were trees , shrubs or herbs . Between 1650 and 1700 CE there was a move from the utilitarian back to a scientific natural classification based on the characters of the plants themselves . 


 = = = 1700 to 1750 – dawn of scientific classification = = = 


 In 1700 French botanist J.P. de Tournefort although still using the broad groupings of " trees " and " herbs " for flowering plants , began to use flower characteristics as distinguishing features and , most importantly , provided a clear definition of the genus as a basic unit of classification . In Institutiones Rei Herbariae he listed about 10 @,@ 000 different plants , which he called species , organised into 698 genera with illustrations . The establishment of this precursor of scientific classification vastly improved the organisation of plant variation into approximately equivalent groups or ranks and many of his genera were later taken up by Carl Linnaeus . There was still at this time no common agreement on the way to present plant names so they ranged in length from one word to lengthy descriptive sentences . As the number of recorded plants increased this naming system became more unwieldy . 

 In England the tradition of documenting garden plants was established long before Linnaeus ' Species Plantarum starting with the herbals , but the most prominent early chronicler was Philip Miller ( 1691 – 1771 ) who was a master gardener in charge of the Chelsea Physic Garden in London from 1722 to 1770 . New plants were coming into Western Europe from southern Europe and the overseas colonies of the Dutch , British and French . These new plants came largely to the botanic gardens of Amsterdam , Leiden , Chelsea and Paris and they needed recording . In 1724 Miller produced a two @-@ volume compendium of garden plants called The Gardeners and Florists Dictionary or a complete System of Horticulture . The first edition was in 1724 , subsequently revised and enlarged until the last and 8th edition in 1768 by which time he had adopted Linnaean binomials . For a while this publication was taken as the starting point for " horticultural " nomenclature equivalent to Linnaeus ' Species Plantarum which is now taken as the starting point for botanical nomenclature in general . Miller 's Dictionary was the first of many English horticultural compendia whose history has been traced by William Stearn . 


 = = = 1750 to 1800 – Linnaeus and binomial nomenclature = = = 


 In the early 18th century colonial expansion and exploration created a demand for the description of thousands of new organisms . This highlighted difficulties in communication about plants , the replication of their descriptions , and the importance of an agreed way of presenting , publishing and applying their names . 

 It was the Swedish botanist Carl Linnaeus who finally put order into this situation as he attempted to name all the known organisms of his day . In 1735 his Systema Naturae , which included animals ( the tenth edition became the starting point for zoological nomenclature ) was followed by Critica Botanica in 1737 , and Philosophia Botanica in 1751 . But it was his most comprehensive work on plants , the 1753 publication Species Plantarum that formalised the name of a genus with a single epithet to form the name of a species as two words , the binomial thus making secure the biological system of binomial nomenclature . In these works Linnaeus used a third name as a variety within a species . These varieties included both wild and horticultural variants . The horticultural varieties were still written in Latin and some have persisted to this day . 

 Linnaeus had very definite and uncomplimentary views about cultigens , regarding them as inferior plants for the amusement of those people he disparagingly called anthophiles ( flower @-@ lovers ) ; these were plants not deserving the attention of serious botanists . His views revealed both his prejudice , his stance on special creation , and his recognition of the difficulties entailed in cultivated plant taxonomy : 


 = = = 1800 to 1900 – global plant trade = = = 


 The natural distribution of plants across the world has determined when and where cultigens have been produced . The botanical and horticultural collection of economically important plants , including ornamentals , was based in Europe . Although economic herbs and spices had a long history in trade , and there are good records of cultivar distribution by the Romans , European botanical and horticultural exploration rapidly increased in the 19th century with the colonial expansion taking place at the time . New plants were brought back to Europe while , at the same time , valuable economic plants , including those from the tropics , were distributed among the colonies . This plant trade has provided the common global heritage of economic and ornamental cultigens that we use today and which formed the stock for modern plant selection , breeding , and genetic engineering . The plant exchange that occurred as a result of European trade can be divided into several phases : 

 to 1560 mostly within Europe 

 1560 – 1620 Near East ( esp. bulbous plants from Turkey – " tulipomania " ) 

 1620 – 1686 Canada and Virginia herbaceous plants 

 1687 – 1772 Cape of South Africa 

 1687 – 1772 North American trees and shrubs 

 1772 – 1820 Australia , Tasmania , New Zealand 

 1820 – 1900 Tropical glasshouse plants ; hardy Japanese plants 

 1900 – 1930 West China 

 1930 Intensive breeding and selection programs 


 = = = 1900 to 1950 – the Botanical Code and cultigen nomenclature = = = 


 As the community of people dealing with the cultigens of commerce grew so , once again , the divergence between taxonomy serving scientific purposes and utilitarian taxonomy meeting human needs re @-@ emerged . In 1865 German botanist Karl Koch , who became General Secretary of the Berlin Horticultural Society , expressed resentment at the continued use of Latin for cultigen names . Many proposals to deal with this were made , perhaps the most prominent being the Lois de la nomenclature botanique submitted in 1867 to the fourth Horticultural and Botanical Congress by Swiss botanist Alphonse de Candolle who , in Article 40 stated : 

 " Seedlings , half @-@ breeds ( métis ) of unknown origin or sports should receive from horticulturists fancy names ( noms de fantaisie ) in common language , as distinct as possible from the Latin names of species or varieties . " 

 This Article , making provision for the cultigens of horticultural nomenclature was to remain in the Botanical Code ( with a minor amendment in 1935 suggesting the use of the letter ' c ' before the horticultural name and antedating formal recognition of the cultivar ) through 1906 , 1912 and 1935 until the separation , in 1953 , of the Horticultural Code , precursor to the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants ( Cultivated Plant Code ) . In 1900 there was the first International Botanical Congress and in 1905 at the second Congress in Vienna an agreed set of nomenclatural rules was established , the Vienna Rules , which became known from then on as the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature ( now the International Code of Nomenclature for algae , fungi , and plants ) . After World War II the responsibility for the Botanical Code was taken up by the International Association for Plant Taxonomy and meetings to discuss revisions are held at six @-@ yearly intervals , the latest being in 2005 

 In horticulture at this time there existed all the problems that had confronted botanists in the 19th century – a plethora of names of various length , written and published in many languages with much duplication . The period between 1867 and 1953 was an uneasy time in which American horticulturists and other groups in Europe , such as the specialist orchid community , made attempts to put order into this chaos within their particular group of interest and devising their own rules for naming the plants of commerce . Friedrich Alefeld ( 1820 – 1872 ) , who used Latin variety names , in a monographic study of beans , lentils and other legumes distinguished three infraspecific taxonomic categories : Unterart ( subspecies ) , Varietäten Gruppe and Kultur @-@ Varietät , all with Latin names . In doing this he was probably laying the ground for the later establishment of the cultigen classification categories cultivar and Group . In conjunction with the Brussels International Botanical Congress of 1910 there was an International Horticultural Congress having a horticultural nomenclature component . 

 As a result of general dissatisfaction and a submission from the Royal Horticultural Society the Règles de Nomenclature Horticole was established . The use of simple descriptive Latin names ( e.g. compactus , nanus , prostratus ) for horticultural variants was accepted and so too were names in the local language – which were not to be translated and should preferably consist of one word and a maximum of three . This first Horticultural Code consisted of 16 Articles . With the intercession of a World War I it was not until the 9th Horticultural Congress in London in 1930 that the rules of a Horticulture Nomenclature Committee were agreed and added as an appendix to the 1935 Botanical Code . The rules established in 1935 were accepted but needed to be extended to include the cultigens of agriculture and forestry , but it was only a result of discussions at the 1950 International Botanical Congress in Stockholm and the 18th International Horticultural Congress in London in 1952 the first International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants was published in 1953 . The American horticultural botanist Liberty Hyde Bailey was responsible for coining the word cultigen in 1918 and cultivar in 1923 , the word cultivar only coming into general circulation with the new Code of 1953 . The use of these two terms belies the multitude of classification terms and categories that had been suggested as designations for cultigens . 


 = = = 1953 – the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants = = = 


 The first Cultivated Plant Code ( Wageningen ) , which was published in 1953 , has been followed by eight subsequent editions – in 1958 ( Utrecht ) , 1961 ( update of 1958 ) , 1969 ( Edinburgh ) , 1980 ( Seattle ) , 1995 ( Edinburgh ) , 2004 ( Toronto ) and 2009 ( Wageningen ) . 

 Following the structure of the Botanical Code the Cultivated Plant Code is set out in the form of an initial set of Principles followed by Rules and Recommendations that are subdivided into Articles . Amendments to the Cultivated Plant Code are prompted by international symposia for cultivated plant taxonomy which allow for rulings made by the International Commission on the Nomenclature of Cultivated Plants . Each new Cultivated Plant Code includes a summary of the changes made to the previous version and these have also been summarised for the period 1953 to 1995 . 


 = = International Association for Cultivated Plant Taxonomy = = 


 Recent concerns have focused on international communication on cultivated plant taxonomy , organisation of international symposia , and general communication on topics of interest . In 1988 a Horticultural Taxonomy Group ( Hortax ) was formed in the UK and a parallel organisation , the Nomenclature and Registration Working Group of the Vaste Keurings Commissie in the Netherlands . One development promoting discussion was the newsletter Hortax News which was superseded in February 2006 by the first issue of Hanburyana , a journal produced by the Royal Horticultural Society in London and dedicated to horticultural taxonomy . This filled a gap left when the American journal Baileya ceased publication in the early 1990s . Another development was the launch , in 2007 , at the Sixth Symposium on the Taxonomy of Cultivated Plants at Wageningen of the International Association for Cultivated Plant Taxonomy . Hortax also publishes Plant Names : A Guide for Horticulturists , Nurserymen , Gardeners and Students . 


 = = Presenting cultigen names = = 


 Most cultigens have names consisting of a Latin name that is governed by the International Code of Nomenclature for algae , fungi , and plants e.g. Malus domestica , to which is added a cultigen epithet , enclosed in single quotes e.g. Malus domestica ' Granny Smith ' . The formation and use of the three classification categories ( ranks ) used for cultigens , the cultivar , Group and grex , is regulated by the ICNCP . Examples of acceptable ways to present cultigen names are given below : 

 Prunus serrata Sato @-@ zakura Group 

 Prunus serrata ( Sato @-@ zakura Group ) ' Ojochin' 

 Prunus ' Ojochin' 

 Flowering cherry ' Ojochin' 


 = = Contemporary issues = = 


 Current challenges for cultivated plant taxonomists include : the use of large plant name databases ; ways of dealing with the use of non @-@ scientific names in commerce ( known as trade designations ) , especially for plant labels in nurseries ; intellectual property and plants ; adapting modern technology , in particular molecular techniques , to the creation and identification of cultivars ; maintaining germplasm collections of cultivars , including herbaria ; the recording and registration of cultivars . 

 The ways in which the plant variation resulting from human activity is named and classified remains contentious . The replacement of the expression " cultivated plant " with the word " cultigen " is not universally accepted . The debate continues concerning the notions of ranks and taxa as applied to cultigens . Is it appropriate to call the highly modified transgenic products of human artificial selection " taxa " in the same way we do for the products of natural selection in the wild ? To overcome this difficulty the term culton ( pl. culta ) has been suggested to replace the word taxon when speaking about cultigens . 

 Then , most " wild " plants fit neatly into the nested hierarchy of ranks used in Linnaean classification ( species into genera , genera into families etc . ) which aligns with Darwinian descent with modification . Choosing classification categories for cultigens is not clear @-@ cut . Included among cultigens are : simple selections taken from plants in the wild or in cultivation ; artificial hybrids produced both by accident and intention ; plants produced by genetic engineering ; clonal material reproduced by cuttings , grafting , budding , layering etc . ; graft @-@ chimaeras ; selections from the wild ; ancient selections of crops that date back thousands of years ; selections of aberrant growth such as witches brooms ; the results of deliberate repeatable single crosses between two pure lines to produce plants of a particular general appearance that is desirable for horticulture , but which are not genetically identical . The question remains as to whether the classification categories of cultivar , Group and grex are the most appropriate and efficient way to deal with this broad range of plant variation . 



 = The Girls He Left Behind Him and The Iron Clad Lover = 


 The Girls He Left Behind Him and The Iron Clad Lover are two 1910 American silent short comedies produced by the Thanhouser Company . Both films were originally released together on a single reel and are two distinct and separate subjects . The Girls He Left Behind Him focuses on a young man , Jack Redfern , who receives a letter from an old sweetheart of his . This prompts him to reminiscence about all the girls he has had affections for on the eve of his wedding . All the old sweethearts of his life then appear at his wedding to wish him well . The Iron Clad Lover concerns two suitors who are vying for the affections of Bessie . Tom , who plays a game of chess with her father , ends up quarreling with him and he is thrown out of the house . The next day , Tom attempts to bring flowers and candy for Bessie 's birthday , but is dismissed by the angry father . Tom decides to dress up in a suit of armor and ends up breaking a vase when trying to announce himself . The suit of armor is thrown out and Bessie and the other suitor chase down the junk dealer to free Tom from the suit of armor . Both films were released on December 9 , 1910 and were met with positive reviews by The Moving Picture World and The New York Dramatic Mirror . Both films are presumed lost . 


 = = Plot = = 


 Though the films are presumed lost , the synopsis of both film survive in The Moving Picture World from December 10 , 1910 . The plot of the The Girls He Left Behind Him follows Jack Redfern , a young bachelor , who is soon to be married . Jack receives a letter in feminine handwriting from an " old sweetheart " of his , stating how glad she is to hear of his approaching marriage . Jack goes through visions , remembering the various girls of his life and his interactions with each of them . Betty , Kate , Tootsie , Elizabeth , Clara , Jeanette , and Helen . According to the synopsis , the last vision he has is of all the old sweethearts of his waving good luck to him as he marries Mary . Though a review states that he awakes and is obliged to hurry to his wedding . Bowers believes the synopsis to be in error and that the film actually concluded with all the girls present at the wedding , rather than it being a " vision " . 

 For the Iron Clad Lover : " Dick makes love to Bessie while Tom plays a game of chess with her father . Tom , naturally nervous , plays such a poor game that he and the old man quarrel and Tom is ordered from the house . Next day is Bessie 's birthday . Tom brings a bouquet and a box of candy . But he is turned away from the house and has the gifts thrown at his head by Bessie 's father . Dick arrives and is welcomed . Tom , in desperation , buys a suit of armor , puts it on and has himself delivered to the house as a present to Bessie . Dick finds out that Tom is inside the armor and makes life miserable for him , blowing cigar smoke through the visor and making love to Bessie . Tom , unable to stand this , tries to announce himself , but only succeeds in stumbling over and breaking a valuable vase . Bessie 's pa has the ' armor ' thrown out . Dick 's conscience makes him tell Bessie that Tom was in the armor and they started the rescue . They were horrified to learn that the old man has sold the armor to a junk dealer ; and Dick and Bessie have an exciting chase before the junk man is rounded up , when it takes combined efforts of a policeman , locksmith , and plumber to release Tom from his iron suit . " 


 = = Production = = 


 The writer of the scenarios are unknown , but it was most likely Lloyd Lonergan . He was an experienced newspaperman employed by The New York Evening World while writing scripts for the Thanhouser productions . The film directors are unknown , but it may have been Barry O 'Neil and / or Lucius J. Henderson . Cameramen employed by the company during this era included Blair Smith , Carl Louis Gregory , and Alfred H. Moses , Jr. though none are specifically credited . The role of the cameraman was uncredited in 1910 productions . The cast credits of both films are unknown , but many 1910 Thanhouser productions are fragmentary . In late 1910 , the Thanhouser company released a list of the important personalities in their films . The list includes G.W. Abbe , Justus D. Barnes , Frank H. Crane , Irene Crane , Marie Eline , Violet Heming , Martin J. Faust , Thomas Fortune , George Middleton , Grace Moore , John W. Noble , Anna Rosemond , Mrs. George Walters . 


 = = Release and reception = = 


 The Girls He Left Behind Him and The Iron Clad Lover were released together on a single reel , approximately 1 @,@ 000 feet in length , on December 9 , 1910 . Both films are comedies , but Thanhouser advertisements refer to The Girls He Left Behind Him as a drama . The individual lengths of the reels are not known for certain , but the Thanhouser Company Film Preservation lists The Girls He Left Behind Him as being three @-@ quarters of a reel and The Iron Clad Lover as half a reel in length . This is listed as an approximation of the relative expected lengths of the production , which could have been about 625 feet and 400 feet in length and still be a single reel . Very few advertisements for the films have been found , but the films likely had a wide national release . One advertisement featuring both films was found in Missouri , but The Girls He Left Behind Him was advertised without its other half and with slightly different spellings in Wisconsin and another Missouri theater . Selig would release a similarly titled work The Girl He Left Behind in 1912 . 

 The Girls He Left Behind Him received praise from the reviewer from The Moving Picture World who stated , " [ It is a ] comedy , not by any means original , but with a sentimental touch , ... this excellent film has placed in visible form these visions of the past which often haunt the middle aged or the younger person who about to take some important step . The mechanical work is well done and the audience follows the picture with interest . " The New York Dramatic Mirror also gave it faint praise by stating that " The picture has some novelty and interest . " For The Iron Clad Lover received minor praise from both publications for being a novel even if the story was impossible . 



 = Bowes Castle = 


 Bowes Castle was a medieval castle in the village of Bowes in County Durham , England . Built within the perimeter of the former Roman fort of Lavatrae , the early timber castle on the site was replaced by a more substantial stone structure between 1170 and 1174 on the orders of Henry II . A planned village was built alongside the castle . Bowes Castle withstood Scottish attack during the Great Revolt of 1173 @-@ 74 but was successfully looted by rebels in 1322 . The castle went into decline and was largely dismantled after the English Civil War . The ruins are now owned by English Heritage and run as a tourist attraction . 


 = = History = = 



 = = = 12th century = = = 


 Bowes Castle was built within the ruins of the Roman fort of Lavatrae . The route was one of the few upland passes to link England and Scotland and had remained strategically important during the medieval period . The castle site lay within the Honour of Richmond , a grouping of lands traditionally owned by the Counts of Brittany during the early medieval period , but the land itself was a demesne estate , owned by the Crown . 

 Around 1136 , Alan de Bretagne , the Count of Brittany , built a timber castle in the north @-@ west corner of the old fort . The use made of the older Roman fortification at Bowes was similar to that at the nearby castles of Brough and Malton . This castle was inherited by his son , Conan , and when he in turn died in 1171 , it was claimed by Henry II . 

 Royal concerns over security led to Henry II investing heavily in a new castle structure on the site between 1171 and 1174 . It was unusual for a new royal castle to be built in this part of England during the 12th century , and Henry appears to have been driven by the military threat from Scotland before and during the Great Revolt of 1173 to 1174 . Henry II spent almost £ 600 on the castle between 1170 and 1187 , most of it in the first few years , rebuilding the older structure under the supervision of the Count of Brittany 's local tenants , Torfin , Osbert and Stephen of Barningham . 

 The rebuilt castle featured a hall @-@ keep , an uncommon design in English castles ; built of stone , this was a three @-@ storied structure 82 feet ( 25 m ) long , 60 feet ( 18 m ) wide and 50 feet ( 15 m ) high . Internally the keep was divided to form a long hall and a solar and was lit by large , rounded windows . The keep had architectural similarities to various nearby castles in the region , but in particular to those at Middleham and Outhgill . A ditch formed an inner defensive bailey around the keep , with the ramparts of the old fort forming a larger , outer bailey . A mill , then an essential part of any castle , was built by the River Greta to supply flour for the garrison . The village of Bowes was built after the castle and formed a planned site running up to the castle , complete with a church and a market place ; this form of planned village is again unusual in England . 

 In England , the Great Revolt against Henry 's rule involved a coalition of rebel barons , bolstered by support from the King of Scotland and European allies . William the Lion pushed south from Scotland in 1173 and Bowes Castle was damaged in the raids ; work was carried out in anticipation of further attacks the following year , including repairs to the chamber , gates and the construction of bulwarks around the keep . The next year William of Scotland directly besieged the castle , but was he forced to retreat after the arrival of a relief force led by Henry 's illegitimate son Geoffrey , then the Bishop of Lincoln . 


 = = = 13th - 14th centuries = = = 


 Henry II was successful in quelling the Great Revolt , imprisoning William the Lion until a peace treaty was agreed , extending Henry 's authority north into Scotland . In the subsequent years the security situation in the north of England improved significantly . King John gave control of Bowes Castle to Robert de Vieuxpont , an important administrator in the north , in 1203 and he retained control of the fortification until 1228 . John stayed there himself in 1206 and in 1212 , and the castle was also used briefly to hold John 's niece Eleanor of Brittany , who had been placed under the custody of Vieuxpont . Henry III granted it briefly to William de Blockley and Gilbert de Kirketon , until it was given to Duke Peter of Brittany in 1232 , and then to William de Valence . In 1241 Peter II , the Count of Savoy was made the Earl of Richmond and was then given Bowes by the king . 

 The castle remained in the hands of the Earls of Richmond until 1322 , by when it was in a poor state of repair . Edward II then gave Bowes Castle to John de Scargill instead ; the local tenants of the Earl of Richmond rebelled and attacked the castle . The lord of the castle was away at the time , and the attackers burnt part of a hall , drank four tuns of wine and stole armour , springalds and other goods . Conflict with Scotland led to further raids against the castle and the surrounding manor ; the neighbouring fields were abandoned as a result and by 1340 the castle was in ruins and the manor worth nothing . 


 = = = Later history = = = 


 Still ruined , Bowes Castle was reclaimed by the Crown in 1361 ; between 1444 and 1471 it was controlled by the Neville family , powerful regional landowners , before reverting to the Crown once again . James I sold the castle in the early 17th century and the remaining fortifications were dismantled in the mid @-@ 17th century after the English Civil War . By 1928 , the castle was in a poor condition , with little interest being shown in it from locals or its owner , Lady Lorna Curzon @-@ Howe . Facing death duties on her estate , Curzon @-@ Howe agreed to pass the castle into the care of the Office of Works in 1931 . 

 In the 21st century , the castle is controlled by English Heritage and operated as a tourist attraction . The ruins of the keep survive , largely intact , and are protected as a Grade I listed building and as a scheduled monument . 



 = Mani Ratnam = 


 Gopala Ratnam Subramaniam ( born 2 June 1955 ) , commonly known by his screen name Mani Ratnam , is an Indian film director , screenwriter , and producer who predominantly works in Tamil cinema . Cited by the media as one of India 's most acclaimed and influential filmmakers , Mani Ratnam is widely credited with revolutionising the Tamil film industry and altering the profile of Indian cinema . Although working in the mainstream medium , his films are noted for their realism , technical finesse , and craft . The Government of India honoured him with the Padma Shri , acknowledging his contributions to film in 2002 . 

 Despite being born into a film family , Mani Ratnam did not develop any interest towards films when he was young . Upon completion of his post graduation in management , he started his career as a consultant . He entered the film industry through the 1983 Kannada film Pallavi Anu Pallavi . The failure of his subsequent films would mean that he was left with little offers . However , his fifth directorial outing , Mouna Ragam ( 1986 ) , established him as a leading filmmaker in Tamil cinema . He followed that with the Godfatheresque Nayagan ( 1987 ) , which is regarded as a cult film over the years . Mani Ratnam is well known for his " Political trilogy " consisting of Roja ( 1992 ) , Bombay ( 1995 ) , and Dil Se .. ( 1998 ) . The commercial and critical success of Roja established him as a leading filmmaker in Indian cinema . 

 Mani Ratnam is married to Tamil actress Suhasini and has a son with her . He has won several film awards , including six National Film Awards , Six Filmfare Awards South and three bollywood Filmfare Awards , and a few awards at various international film festivals . 


 = = Early and personal life = = 


 Mani Ratnam was born on 2 June 1955 , as the second child of a family that was closely associated with film production . His father S. Gopala Ratnam was a film distributor who worked for Venus Pictures , and his uncle " Venus " Krishnamurthy was a film producer . His elder brother G. Venkateswaran would go on to produce some of his films . His younger brother , G. Srinivasan , who like Venkateswaran would co @-@ produce some of his films . Mani Ratnam grew up in Madras ( now Chennai ) , along with his siblings and cousins in a joint @-@ family . Despite being a film family , the children were not allowed to watch films as the elders considered it a " taboo " . " As a youngster , films seemed like a waste of time " , he claimed in a 1994 interview ; however , he started watching films more actively when he was studying in the Besant Theosophical School , Adyar , Madras . During this time , he developed an admiration towards actors like Sivaji Ganesan and Nagesh , and watched all their films . By the time when he was 15 , he got to know about director K. Balachander , and became a fan of his . Upon completing his schooling , he graduated with a degree in commerce from the Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda College , affiliated to the Madras University . Later , he did his Master of Business Administration in finance from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies , Mumbai . After finishing his post @-@ graduation in 1977 , he was employed in a firm in Madras as a management consultant , and continued to work there for sometime . 

 Mani is married to Suhasini , an established actress in South Indian cinema then . The two first met in 1988 and got married the same year . The couple have a son Nandhan ( born 1992 ) . The family resides in Alwarpet , Chennai , where he runs his production company , Madras Talkies . 


 = = Film career = = 



 = = = Beginnings : 1977 – 1983 = = = 


 Mani Ratnam was not satisfied with his job as a consultant as he found it to be a mere extension of his academics . During this time his friend Ravi Shankar , son of director B. R. Panthulu , was in the process of making his first film , in Kannada . Mani Ratnam had accompanied Ravi Shankar along with another friend called Raman , son of filmmaker S. Balachander , to complete the script of the film . Mani Ratnam took a sabbatical from his job in order to ensure his participation in the making of the film . Being inexperienced , the makers were largely dependent upon the American Cinematographer magazine . The principal cast included Vishnuvardhan , Srinath , Ambarish , Lakshmi , and Roja Ramani . When the filming was about to begin in Kolar , Karnataka , Mani Ratnam left his consulting job and joined the crew . The film , however , did not take off and was eventually shelved . Nevertheless , he was firm in his idea of becoming a film @-@ maker . Although not pleased with the films made in Tamil cinema till then , he was " amazed " at P. Bharathiraja 's 16 Vayathinile ( 1977 ) , and J. Mahendran 's Mullum Malarum ( 1978 ) and Uthiripookkal ( 1979 ) . During this time , he befriended a group of people namely P. C. Sreeram , Santhana Bharathi , and P. Vasu , who shared common interests of entering into the film industry . 

 With a script in hand , Mani Ratnam had an idea to either get a producer for his film or to narrate the script to a " celebrated " film @-@ maker , so that he could get a chance to work along with them and get to know about the various aspects involved in film @-@ making . He chose three directors — Balachander , Bharathiraja , and Mahendran . As the attempts to meet and convince all the three proved to be unsuccessful , he decided to look out for a producer . In the process , he along with P. C. Sreeram — who would collaborate with him in most of his future projects — met around 20 people ; however , all the efforts turned out to be unsuccessful . 


 = = = Early years and struggle : 1983 – 1986 = = = 


 Mani Ratnam developed a script — originally written in English — into a film and named it Pallavi Anu Pallavi . His uncle Krishnamurthy agreed to produce the film but imposed a condition that it should be made under a limited budget in Kannada , to which he agreed . As a debutant , Mani Ratnam wanted to make sure that the technical aspects of the film are good . He persuaded Balu Mahendra to do the cinematography as he found the latter 's work to be very impressive . He managed to get other crew members B. Lenin ( for editing ) , Thotta Tharani ( for art direction ) and Ilaiyaraaja ( for music composer music ) , all leading craftsmen in their respective fields then . For the male lead , he cast Anil Kapoor after watching his performance in the Telugu film Vamsa Vruksham ( 1980 ) . Lakshmi who was a leading actress then , was signed up as the female lead . The film explored the relationship between a young man and an older woman . Although an average grosser at the box @-@ office , the film fetched Mani Ratnam the Best Screenplay Award from the Karnataka State Government for the year 1983 . After watching Pallavi Anu Pallavi , N. G. John , a Malayalam film producer , offered him a chance to direct a film in Malayalam . Scripted by T. Damodaran , Unaru was about the corruption in labour unions of Kerala . The film was completed with in two months and got released in April 1984 . Mani Ratnam attributed the failure of the film to the conflict of interests that he and the producer had . Following this , he entered Tamil cinema when G. Thyagarajan of Sathya Jyothi Films offered him a chance to direct Pagal Nilavu ( 1985 ) . The film had Murali and Revathi playing lead roles . It was different from his previous two films in a way that it included dance sequences and a " comedy track " . However , the film turned out to be another failure for him . The same year , he directed another Tamil film Idaya Kovil , a romantic drama . He remodeled a ready made script on the lines of Charlie Chaplin 's Limelight ( 1952 ) . Described by himself as an unsatisfied work , the film was a major box @-@ office success . The phase between 1983 and 1986 was the toughest of his career with only Pallavi Anupallavi being a satisfiable film ; the rest three were done with a lot of " compromises " . 


 = = = Breakthrough : 1986 – 1991 = = = 


 In 1986 , Mani directed the Tamil romantic drama Mouna Ragam , which starred Revathi and Mohan . The film was critically acclaimed for portraying urban Tamils in a " realistic " manner . Specifically , it told the story of the friction between a newly @-@ wed couple . The score by Ilaiyaraaja was appreciated and became popular upon release . Mouna Raagam was subsequently dubbed into Telugu under the same title and became a hit in Andhra Pradesh as well . The film elevated Mani 's status as a director , and won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Tamil at the 34th National Film Awards . He won his first Filmfare Award for directing the film . 

 In 1987 , Mani directed Nayagan starring Kamal Haasan , and the film became a huge success and brought him recognition at the national level . Inspired by the 1972 American crime film , The Godfather , the film was based on the real @-@ life story of underworld don Varadarajan Mudaliar , and tells the story of an orphaned slum @-@ dweller and his rise to top of the Mumbai underworld hierarchy , was included in Time magazine 's All @-@ Time 100 Greatest Movies in 2005 . Satyajit Ray 's The Apu Trilogy and Guru Dutt 's Pyaasa are the only other Indian films that have appeared in the list . Indian critics dubbed the film as India 's answer to The Godfather . Nayagan was both commercially successful and critically acclaimed winning three National Awards — Best Actor , Best Cinematography and Best Art Direction — at the 35th National Film Awards . The film was India 's official entry to the Oscars for Best Foreign Language Film at the 60th Academy Awards . 

 Following these two commercial successes , Mani wrote and directed Agni Natchathiram in 1988 . The film deals with the story of step @-@ brothers played by Prabhu and Karthik and is notable for its use of new techniques in camera framework , especially during the songs . The film had a successful run in the box office . 

 In 1989 , Mani opted to make his next project Geethanjali , his maiden venture in Telugu . Starring Nagarjuna in the lead role , the film told the story of an ill @-@ fated couple , both of whom are suffering from terminal diseases . Geethanjali was critically acclaimed and won the National Film Award for Best Popular Film Providing Wholesome Entertainment in 1990 . In addition , it won the Best Director and Nandi Award for Best Story Writer for Mani . Mani maintained a momentum of making emotional stories of under @-@ served people through the film Anjali in 1990 , which starred Raghuvaran and told the story of an autistic child who changed the lives of people around her . The film proved to be a commercial success and was nominated as India 's official entry to the Oscars in the Best Foreign Language Film category at the 63rd Academy Awards . Following Anjali 's release , Mani later made another underworld @-@ themed Tamil film , Thalapathi ( 1991 ) , starring Rajinikanth and Mammootty . The film was an adaptation of Mahabharata , dealt with the friendship between Karna and Duryodhana portrayed by Rajinikanth and Mammmooty respectively . The film met with both critical acclaim and commercial success upon release . Ilaiyaraaja 's musical score and Mani 's work were highly appreciated as they both went on to win the Music Director and Best Director awards respectively at the 39th Filmfare Awards . 


 = = = International acclaim : 1992 – 99 = = = 


 With Thalapathi , Mani ended his long @-@ term association with music director Ilaiyaraaja , bringing in debutant music director A. R. Rahman to score his Tamil classic Roja ( 1992 ) . The venture was successful , earning Mani various awards . Roja , a romantic film , was about terrorism in the Kashmir region . Starring Arvind Swamy and Madhoo , it was nominated for the Golden St. George Award at the 18th Moscow International Film Festival . It became highly popular , gaining an iconic status in Indian cinema and was dubbed into other languages and met similar success in other regions . Mani took a more light @-@ hearted approach with his next film — Thiruda Thiruda ( 1993 ) . Scripted by Ram Gopal Varma , the film was a fun filled caper , which was a departure from Mani 's previous style and fared moderately well at the box office . Thiruda Thiruda was premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival in 1994 . 

 Mani again teamed up with Ram Gopal Varma to provide the screenplay for the latter 's Telugu film Gaayam , a socio @-@ politico film loosely based on The Godfather . In 1995 , Mani returned to Tamil language drama through Bombay starring Arvind Swamy and Manisha Koirala , which told the story of a Hindu @-@ Muslim couple in the midst of the 1993 religious Bombay riots and bombings . It was also the first Indian film to focus on marriage between Hindu and Muslim people . The film met with controversy and censorship upon release , was subsequently dubbed into Hindi and was commercially successful and appreciated by critics . It won a number of awards , such as Nargis Dutt Award for Best Feature Film on National Integration , Special Award from the Political Film Society , In the Spirit of Freedom Award at the Jerusalem International Film Festival and the Gala Award at the Edinburgh International Film Festival . 

 Mani produced his wife 's directorial debut film , Indira , and the critical success Iruvar with Mohanlal , Aishwarya Rai , Tabu and Prakash Raj in the lead , his next film as director . Iruvar was honoured the Best Film at the " Festival of the Auteur Films " at the FEST film festival held in Belgrade . In 1998 came the third part of his " terrorism trilogy " , named Dil Se .. and starring Shahrukh Khan and Manisha Koirala , with the latter fabricating the second collaboration . It showed the relationship between a young man and a dangerous , disturbed woman . Although they fall in love , she is unable to take the romance further due to her bleak past . The soundtrack album , again composed by A. R. Rahman , gained mass appeal and gave Rahman his next Filmfare Award for Best Music Direction in 1999 . Unlike his previous two projects , Dil Se .. opened with well note among the film critics and the film poorly performed in the domestic market , despite being a success overseas . It was screened in many international film festivals , and won the Netpac award ( Ex @-@ Aqueo ) in the Berlin International Film Festival . In 2000 , Mani directed the romantic drama Alaipayuthey that starred R. Madhavan and Shalini . The film focussed on marriage and explored relationships and their consequences , and garnered critical recognition . It was also screened at the Berlin International Film Festival . 

 Along with Vasanth , he was instrumental in organizing Netru , Indru , Naalai , a stage musical that marked the first theatre production , with numerous other artistes , to aid The Banyan , an organization that rehabilitates women and children with mental illness . 


 = = = Kannathil Muthamittal and onwards : 2002 – present = = = 


 Mani 's next film , Kannathil Muthamittal , dealt with the story of a child of Sri Lankan Tamil parentage adopted by Indian parents , who wishes to meet her biological mother during the Sri Lankan Civil War . The film was critically acclaimed and commercially successful , winning six National Film Awards , Filmfare Award for Best Direction in Tamil , In the Spirit of Freedom Award at the Jerusalem Film Festival , and an award at the Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles . In 2004 , he made Aaytha Ezhuthu , which tells the story of how one incident sends the lives of three youths on a collision course and received positive reviews . Mani made the film simultaneously in Hindi as Yuva , his second venture into Bollywood . Ajay Devgn , Abhishek Bachchan , and Vivek Oberoi replaced Surya Sivakumar , R. Madhavan , and Siddharth , respectively in the Hindi version . Unlike Yuva , Aaytha Ezhuthu was appreciated by critics . Mani suffered his first heart attack while shooting for Aaytha Ezhuthu . 

 In 2007 , Mani made Guru , a biographical film based on the life of Dhirubhai Ambani , a business magnate from India . The film starred Abhishek Bachchan and Aishwarya Rai , through his production house , Madras Talkies . The film is set in the early 1950s , became a box office success , and received critical acclaim . Guru was screened at the Tous Les Cinemas du Monde ( World Cinema ) section of the 2007 Cannes Film Festival . In 2010 , Mani worked on a bilingual film , titled Raavanan in Tamil where in the film look was unveiled at 2010 Cannes Film Festival , as part of its marketing campaign. and Raavan in Hindi . The Tamil version was dubbed into Telugu and titled Villain . The film was released worldwide on 18 June 2010 . 

 The film is loosely based on the Hindu epic Ramayana ; its narrative occurs over 14 days when a revolutionist named Veera , who lives in a forest , kidnaps a policeman 's wife to avenge his sister 's death . The Tamil version received positive reviews from the critics compared to its other versions . The New York Times called the movie a " critics ' pick " . However , the reviewers of the Hindi version panned the film ; Rajeev Masand said it was " a crushing bore of a film , a disappointment on virtually every count " The Tamil version was declared a box office success . 

 Mani 's film , Kadal was released worldwide on 1 February 2013 to mixed reviews from critics and became a box office failure . Later the distributor of the film filed a police complaint against Mani on account of the huge losses suffered by him . 

 His film , romantic drama O Kadhal Kanmani starring Dulquer Salmaan and Nithya Menen as the lead pair , was released in April 2015 . The cinematography and editing of the film was handled by P.C. Sreeram and A. Sreekar Prasad respectively , while music was scored by A. R. Rahman . The film depicted the life of a young couple in a live @-@ in relationship in Mumbai , and was said to be a " reflection of the modern mindset of urban India " , dealing with issues such as marriage and traditional values . Made at a small budget of 6 crores , the film achieved widespread critical acclaim and commercial success . His next film is Kaatru Veliyidai , starring Karthi , Aditi Rao Hydari and RJ Balaji . 


 = = Craft , style , and technical collaborations = = 


 Mani Ratnam grew up watching the films of K. Balachander , Guru Dutt and Sivaji Ganesan . He is greatly influenced by the film @-@ making styles of Akira Kurosawa , Martin Scorsese , Krzysztof Kieślowski , Ingmar Bergman and J. Mahendran . 

 Unlike most of his contemporaries , Mani Ratnam did not assist anybody in film @-@ making prior to entering the industry . He is credited with revolutionizing the Tamil film industry and is referred for bringing new dimension to the South Asian cinema . A majority of his films are characterized by a string of socio @-@ political themes . Because of his idea of combining art and commercial elements , most of his films garnered both critical acclaim and commercial success . Nayagan , Bombay and Iruvar were inspired from real @-@ life incidents , while Thalapathi and Raavan were based on Indian epics . 

 Mani Ratnam handled screenplays for a majority of his films . Lauded for his casting in each of his films , he claimed in an interview that " I am not a director who performs and shows . I discuss the role , the scene with my actors and let them bring life to it " . Right from the beginning of his career , his works were noted for their technical expertise in areas such as cinematography , art direction , editing and background score . For his debut film , he managed to handpick Balu Mahendra , Thotta Tharani , B. Lenin , and Ilaiyaraaja , leading craftsmen in their respective fields . As his career progressed , he worked with his childhood friend P. C. Sreeram and continued his collaborations with him until Geethanjali . In 1991 for his film Thalapathi , he chose Santosh Sivan and Suresh Urs — both newcomers to the Tamil film industry — to do cinematography and editing respectively . Both would later go onto become a part of his regular crew . While working on Raavan , Santosh Sivan noted " any cameraman can hone his skills just working with [ Mani ] " and described Mani Ratnam 's films as difficult to film . From his debut project till Thalapathi , Ilaiyaraaja was his regular composer . The duo split due to some creative differences after the film . For his next film Roja ( 1992 ) , he collaborated with debutant A. R. Rahman , who has been his regular composer for all his films till date . He has also worked with Rajiv Menon and Ravi K. Chandran , while switching between Sreeram and Santosh Sivan . Since Alaipayuthey , Sreekar Prasad has been his regular film editor . 


 = = Awards and honours = = 


 Mani is well recognized outside India with a retrospective of his films held at various film festivals around the world such as Toronto International Film Festival , Pusan International Film Festival , Tokyo Filmex and Birmingham International Film Festival . His films are being screened regularly at many film festivals such as Venice Film Festival , Rotterdam Film Festival , Montreal Film Festival and Palm Springs International Film Festival . 

 The Government of India honoured Mani with Padma Shri in 2002 . He has won several National Film Awards , Filmfare Awards , Filmfare Awards South and state awards . Apart from these awards , many of his films have been screened at various film festivals and have won numerous accolades . Geethanjali , directed by him won the Golden Lotus Award for Best Popular Film at the 37th National Film Awards . Other films like Mouna Ragam , Anjali , and Kannathil Muthamittal have won the Best Regional Film awards at the National Film Awards . Two of his films , Roja and Bombay have won the Nargis Dutt Award for Best Feature Film on National Integration . The former was also nominated for Best Film category at the 18th Moscow International Film Festival . In 2010 , Mani was honoured with Jaeger @-@ Lecoultre Glory to the Filmmaker at the 67th Venice International Film Festival . In July 2015 , he was honoured with the Sun Mark Lifetime Achievement Award at the Bagri Foundation London Indian Film Festival for his esteemed contribution to international cinema . Around the same time , the Museum of the Moving Image , New York , paid a special tribute to Mani . His films Roja , Bombay , and Dil Se were screened at the museum as a retrospective . 



 = Major General George B. McClellan = 


 Major General George B. McClellan is an equestrian statue in Washington , D.C. that honors politician and Civil War general George B. McClellan . The monument is sited on a prominent location in the Kalorama Triangle neighborhood due to efforts made by area residents . The statue was sculpted by American artist Frederick William MacMonnies , a graduate of the École des Beaux @-@ Arts whose best known work is a statue of Nathan Hale in New York City . MacMonnies was chosen to design the statue following a lengthy competition organized by a statue commission , led by then Secretary of War William Howard Taft . The monument was dedicated in 1907 , with prominent attendees at the ceremony including President Theodore Roosevelt , New York City mayor George B. McClellan , Jr . , politicians , generals and thousands of military personnel . 

 The sculpture is one of eighteen Civil War monuments in Washington , D.C. , which were collectively listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1978 . The bronze statue , which rests on a tall granite base adorned with emblems and bronze reliefs , is surrounded by a small public park bounded by California Street , Columbia Road and Connecticut Avenue NW . The monument and park are owned and maintained by the National Park Service , a federal agency of the Interior Department . 


 = = History = = 



 = = = Background = = = 


 George B. McClellan ( 1826 – 1885 ) rose to prominence as a major general during the Civil War who organized the Army of the Potomac . Although he was unsuccessful in early battles , the Union victory at the Battle of Antietam temporarily halted the Confederate invasion of the northern states . He was later removed from his post by President Abraham Lincoln , whom he unsuccessfully ran against in the 1864 presidential election . McClellan ran again for public office after the war , serving as the 24th Governor of New Jersey . 

 Shortly after McClellan 's death in 1885 , the Society of the Army of the Potomac , a fraternal organization consisting of Union veterans , began plans to erect a monument honoring the general . It wasn 't until March 3 , 1901 , that Congress appropriated $ 50 @,@ 000 for the erection of the statue of McClellan . The following month a statue commission , originally led by Secretary of War Elihu Root , Senator George P. Wetmore and General George D. Ruggles , was formed to oversee the project . An advisory committee , composed of sculptors Daniel Chester French and Augustus Saint @-@ Gaudens , and architect Charles Follen McKim , was also formed to provide recommendations to the commission . A resolution adopted at one of the first commission meetings stated : " That the monument of Gen. McClellan be an equestrian statue , and that this resolution be communicated by the secretary to any commission hereinafter appointed to execute the work . " 

 In 1902 , a design competition was held at the Corcoran Gallery of Art with a bonus of $ 500 for each of the four sculptors who submitted the best models of the McClellan statue . Twenty @-@ three designs were submitted by May 1 , which was later narrowed down to four finalists : Austin Hays , Charles Henry Niehaus , Attilio Piccirilli and Thomas Waldo Story . The four sculptors were later asked to submit larger models for further review by the advisory committee . The model submitted by Story was favored by McClellan 's widow , Nelly . In 1903 , the committee rejected three of the designs , citing a lack of individuality and symbolism . The fourth design , by Niehaus , was reluctantly approved by the committee , though the commission rejected all of the designs stating " no model submitted upon the competition is satisfactory . " 

 In August 1903 , the commission chose Frederick William MacMonnies ( 1863 – 1937 ) , an American artist and sculptor who lived in Paris , to create the statue . MacMonnies was a graduate of the École des Beaux @-@ Arts who had apprenticed with Saint @-@ Gaudens for four years beginning at the age of seventeen . His previous works included a statue of Nathan Hale in New York City , Columbian Fountain at the World 's Columbian Exposition in Chicago and Bacchante and Infant Faun at the Boston Public Library . MacMonnies ' other well @-@ known Civil War work is the sculptural groupings on the Soldiers ' and Sailors ' Arch in Brooklyn , New York . After his initial design was rejected due to costs overruns , he submitted a new design to the committee , which was later approved by the officials and Nelly McClellan . The accepted design reflected the influence of MacMonnies ' teacher in Paris , Alexandre Falguière , rather than Saint @-@ Gaudens . James Crocroft was chosen to design the monument while the statue was founded by Edmond Gruet Jeune . The Society of the Army of the Potomac paid for the costs associated with improving the monument site . 

 The site chosen for the monument changed several times throughout the planning process . Suggested locations included the intersection of Florida Avenue and Massachusetts Avenue NW , Sheridan Circle ( current site of the General Philip Sheridan statue ) and the intersection of N Street and Connecticut Avenue NW ( current site of the Doctor John Witherspoon statue ) . In 1906 , residents of the Kalorama Triangle neighborhood , then called Washington Heights , represented by cartoonist Clifford K. Berryman and Rear Admiral Thomas Oliver Selfridge , Jr . , asked the statue commission to consider placing the monument in their neighborhood . The commission , then led by Secretary of War and future President William Howard Taft , Senator Wetmore and General Horatio Collins King , approved the suggested site at the intersection of Connecticut Avenue and Columbia Road NW , describing it as a " more satisfactory and imposing " location . An additional factor that led to the site 's approval was that the area had been a Union camp during the summer of 1861 when McClellan arrived in Washington , D.C. 


 = = = Dedication = = = 


 The dedication of the monument was first planned for October 18 , 1906 , to coincide with the 37th annual reunion of the Society of the Army of the Potomac . A fire at MacMonnies ' polishing works prevented him from finishing the pedestal in time , so the dedication and reunion were rescheduled for the following May . During the delay , MacMonnies exhibited the statue at the 1906 Salon d 'Automne in Paris before shipping it to the United States . The reunion began on May 1 , 1907 , with opening events held at the Belasco Theater ( present site of the Howard T. Markey National Courts Building ) , Corcoran Gallery of Art and Thomas Jefferson Building . 

 The dedication took place on Thursday , May 2 , at 2 : 30 pm . Prior to the ceremony , around 700 veterans gathered at the intersection of 18th Street and Columbia Road NW , and marched down Columbia Road in a military parade to the dedication site . Veterans who were unable to march were seated in reviewing stands . The area surrounding the monument included a temporary stand and viewing boxes decorated with bunting , large flags , flowers and shields , while the statue was draped with two American flags . Prominent attendees at the ceremony included the main speaker , President Theodore Roosevelt , New York City mayor and McClellan 's son , George B. McClellan , Jr . , William Howard Taft , New Jersey governor Edward C. Stokes , Generals George Lewis Gillespie , Jr . , Frederick Dent Grant and Wallace F. Randolph , and Nelly McClellan . Additional attendees included members of Congress , foreign diplomats , members of the president 's cabinet and thousands of citizens . The event was led by Brigadier General Henry C. Dwight , president of the Society of the Army of the Potomac . 

 Following an invocation by Episcopal bishop Henry Y. Satterlee , a brief history of the statue was given by General Horatio Collins King . McClellan , Jr. then unveiled the statue to cheers and applause from the crowd . After the unveiling , the Fourth Battery of the Field Artillery saluted as " The Star @-@ Spangled Banner " was played by the Marine Band . After a military parade consisting of thousands of troops led by General J. Franklin Bell passed the statue and the reviewing stands , the main speech by Roosevelt was given . Roosevelt 's remarks , which covered various topics including war , peace , national pride and family , included the following : " Modern statuary has added a new terror to death . But I wish on behalf of those who live in the capital of the nation to express my very profound acknowledgment to those who had the good taste to choose a great sculptor to do this work . I thank them for having erected here in so well a chosen site a statue which , not only because of the man it commemorates , but because of its intrinsic worth , adds to the nobility and beauty of the capital city of the country . " Following the president 's remarks , an overture from Semiramide , " On the Field of Glory " , was played . General Oliver O. Howard then spoke about his interactions with McClellan and General Grenville M. Dodge read a letter from General Daniel Sickles ( who was ill at the time ) that discussed his personal experiences with McClellan General Dwight 's speech included the statement : " Statues may crumble to dust . Veterans ' graves will be obliterated by time , but the grandest monument of the service of valor of the soldiers and sailors of the Civil War , the United States of America , the hope and joy of the world , consecrated to liberty by the blood and treasure of the nation , the undying testimonial of the patriotism of her people , will continue years and years . " The benediction was given by William R. Jenvey , Episcopal archdeacon of Jersey City , followed by the band closing the ceremony with " My Country , ' Tis of Thee . " 


 = = = Later history = = = 


 The statue is one of eighteen Civil War monuments in Washington , D.C. that were collectively listed on the National Register of Historic Places ( NRHP ) on September 20 , 1978 , and the District of Columbia Inventory of Historic Sites on March 3 , 1979 . It is also designated a contributing property to the Kalorama Triangle Historic District , listed on the NRHP on May 4 , 1987 . The monument and surrounding park are owned and maintained by the National Park Service ( NPS ) , a federal agency of the Interior Department . 

 In 2009 , the monument underwent a $ 114 @,@ 000 restoration by Kreilick Conservation supervised by NPS architectural conservator Catherine Dewey . It was the first major conservation of the statue since its dedication in 1907 . Scaffolding and nylon mesh were installed around the monument for several months during the restoration , which included cleaning , painting and waxing the statue . Damage to the monument that was repaired during the process included removing spray paint from the base , removing water leakage inside the horse 's legs and stomach , and replicating a bronze shield that was missing from the pedestal . 


 = = Design and location = = 


 The monument is sited on a prominent location at the intersection of California Street , Columbia Road and Connecticut Avenue NW , on the southern edge of the Kalorama Triangle Historic District . The statue faces south down Connecticut Avenue toward Dupont Circle and downtown Washington , D.C. It is surrounded by a small public park . Adjacent landmarks include the Churchill Hotel to the west , Lothrop Mansion to the north and Washington Hilton to the east . 

 The bronze statue is 13 @.@ 6 feet ( 4 @.@ 1 m ) tall . It depicts McClellan dressed in his Union Army military uniform , including gauntlets , a hat , sash and sword , while riding a horse . He is holding the horse 's reins with the left hand while the right hand is placed on his hip . The granite pedestal , which measures 18 ft ( 5 @.@ 5 m ) tall and 9 @.@ 5 ft ( 2 @.@ 9 m ) long , rests on a base measuring 44 ft ( 13 m ) long and 30 ft ( 9 @.@ 1 m ) wide . Near the top of the pedestal are eight shield @-@ shaped emblems noting Civil War battles McClellan led : Antietam , Fair Oaks , Gaines 's Mill , Malvern Hill , Mechanicsville , South Mountain , Williamsburg and Yorktown . On the east and west sides of the pedestal are bronze reliefs composed of cannons , eagles , flags and swords . A bronze oak and laurel garland runs along the base of the pedestal between bronze eagles on each corner . 

 Inscriptions on the monument include the following : 

 ( front of the pedestal ) MAJOR GENERAL / GEORGE BRINTON MCCLELLAN / 1826 @-@ 1885 

 ( rear of the pedestal ) ERECTED BY THE / GRAND ARMY OF THE POTOMAC / AND THE / CONGRESS OF THE VNITED STATES / 1907 

 ( relief on proper left side ) MAC MONNIES / E. GRUET JNE FONDEUR 



 = Chatteris = 


 Chatteris / ˈtʃætɛrɪs / is a civil parish and one of four market towns in the Fenland district of Cambridgeshire , England , situated in The Fens between Huntingdon , March and Ely . The town is in the North East Cambridgeshire parliamentary constituency . 

 The parish of Chatteris is large , covering 6 @,@ 099 hectares , and for much of its history was a raised island in the low @-@ lying wetland of the Fens . Mentioned in the Domesday Book of 1086 , the town has evidence of settlement from the Neolithic period . After several fires in the 18th and 19th centuries , the majority of the town 's housing dates from the late Victorian period onwards , with the tower of the parish church the only medieval building remaining . 

 Following the draining of the Fens , beginning in the 17th century and completed in the 19th century , the town 's economy has been based on agriculture and related industry . Due to its proximity to Cambridge , Huntingdon and Peterborough , the town has emerged as a commuter town . The town had a population of 10 @,@ 453 at the time of the United Kingdom Census 2011 . 


 = = History = = 



 = = = Toponymy and early history = = = 


 Chatteris 's name probably derives from the Celtic Cedrid - Ced meaning a wood and Rid , a ford , although it may also derive from " cader " , meaning hill fort , suggesting a similar site to the nearby Stonea Camp . The town was mentioned in the Domesday Book as " Cetriz " and " Cateriz " . 

 Archaeological evidence has been found of Neolithic , Bronze Age and Iron Age settlements in the area , and Chatteris possesses what has been interpreted as the only upstanding Neolithic boundaries in Fenland . Saxon evidence is less well preserved , although in 679 , Hunna , the chaplain to Æthelthryth of Ely built a hermitage on Honey Hill . More apocryphically , Chatteris is reputed to have been the last refuge of Boudica as she fled from the Romans . 


 = = = Medieval period = = = 


 The miraculous story of the first known parishioner of the town , Bricstan , is documented in the Historia Ecclesiastica by the Chronicler Orderic Vitalis ( 1075 - c.1142 ) . According to the legend , Bricstan was a pious free tenant from the town who had joined the monastery at Ely Cathedral in 1115 to begin training as a monk . However , he was accused of theft and imprisoned in London . The legend recounts that one night he had a vision of Saint Etheldreda coming towards him , and as if by a miracle , his heavy chains fell from him and he was shackled no longer . When he awoke from his dream , he discovered that this was indeed true and he was free of his chains . The wife of Henry I , Matilda of Scotland , heard of the miracle , and she assured herself that he was no rogue or thief , issued a writ of pardon and declared him a free man . 

 During the Medieval period , the town was dominated by Chatteris Abbey , a small Benedictine nunnery dedicated to St Mary , built in 980 by Alfwen the niece of King Edgar and one of only eight nunneries mentioned in the Domesday Book . Throughout its existence , the abbey was comparatively poor compared to other foundations , due to a lack of royal patronage and a consequent lack of tithe estates . As a result , the abbey survived the first wave of closures during the Dissolution of the Monasteries , but was surrendered to the king 's commissioners in 1538 , by which time there were eleven nuns in residence . 

 At this date fourteen local families still used the abbey church as parochial but this , unusually , did not save it from demolition , the parishioners being transferred to nearby St Peter and St Paul 's Church in the area . It has been conjectured that due to the short space between them , the parish church may have been the abbey church , although Claire Breay 's Cartulary of Chatteris Abbey discounts this idea , citing that historical documentation clearly defines two separate churches . A range of the cloister buildings survived as part of a mansion known as Park House . This was demolished in 1847 and the site has now completely vanished beneath streets and housing , although the " Park Streets " of Chatteris mark the boundary of its walls and several buildings contain stone originating from the abbey . A large portion of the town was destroyed by a great fire in 1310 , which destroyed the nunnery and a large portion of the church , leaving only sections of the base of the tower . 


 = = = Early modern and contemporary = = = 


 Later fires in 1706 and 1864 destroyed most medieval and Georgian architecture , and a large proportion of the town 's listed buildings date from the Victorian period onwards . However , many of the pasture fields on the outskirts of the town have evidence of ridge and furrow farming practices , although these are under threat by current building proposals . 

 To the north of the town runs the Forty Foot Drain , a large river also called Vermuyden 's Drain , after the Dutch engineer whose name is associated with the fen drainage works of the middle of the 17th century . Several of the older buildings of the town show evidence of the Dutch architectural style . 

 Chatteris is a market town and has possessed this designation since 1834 , although an earlier market existed in the town , which was discontinued due to poor roads in 1808 . A small market is still held every Friday . Following the Beeching Axe , Chatteris railway station , formerly on the St. Ives extension of the Great Eastern Railway was closed in March 1967 . 


 = = Governance = = 


 The town is in the North East Cambridgeshire parliamentary constituency , with the incumbent MP being the Conservative Stephen Barclay . The constituency is now considered a safe Conservative seat , although the Liberal MP Clement Freud held the seat from 1973 to 1987 . The town is locally governed by Cambridgeshire County Council , Fenland District Council and Chatteris Town Council , each performing separate functions . 

 The town is historically part of the Isle of Ely , once under the secular jurisdiction of the Bishop of Ely , a power ended by the Liberty of Ely Act , 1837 . After various changes throughout the 19th and 20th centuries , following the recommendations of the Local Government Commission for England , on 1 April 1965 the bulk of the area was merged to form Cambridgeshire and Isle of Ely , and since the Local Government Act 1972 , Chatteris has been part of the wider Cambridgeshire County Council . 

 Under the Police Act 1964 and local government reform in 1974 , the Isle of Ely Constabulary became part of the present Cambridgeshire Constabulary . A small police station is situated in East Park Street , but it is no longer open to the public . 


 = = Geography = = 


 Chatteris is situated between Huntingdon , St Ives , Peterborough , March and Ely , in the middle of The Fens — the lowest @-@ lying area in the United Kingdom — with most of the land surrounding the town being below sea level , although the highest point in the Fens ( 36 feet above sea level ) is within Chatteris 's parish boundaries . The peaty land surrounding the town is largely used for agriculture , drained by numerous ditches and dykes , and there are two large drainage rivers near the town - the Forty Foot Drain , also known as Vermuyden 's Drain , and the Sixteen Foot Drain . 

 Chatteris is a key turning point on the A141 road ( known as the Isle of Ely way ) and the starting point of the A142 road to Ely and Suffolk ( known as Ireton 's Way ) . The town also has important links to Cambridge and the A14 via the B1050 to Bar Hill . The town centre traffic was bypassed in 1986 , with the disused route of the former St Ives extension of the Great Eastern Railway being used to build the A141 to March and Guyhirn . 

 There are no Met Office recording stations in the Fens , but an indication of rainfall and temperature of the county town Cambridge on the edge of the Fens shows that rainfall is below the national average , and in a wider study of East Anglia , the region had temperatures comparable with London , the warmest part of the UK . 


 = = Demography = = 


 The United Kingdom Census 2011 found the population of Chatteris to be 10 @,@ 453 . This was an increase of 1163 since 2001 which recorded 8 @,@ 820 people living in 3 @,@ 809 households , with the average number of people per dwelling 2 @.@ 31 . The 2001 census found that 98 @.@ 9 % of the population of the town were of the white ethnic group . The parish of Chatteris is large , covering 6 @,@ 099 hectares , equalling an average population density of 1 @.@ 45 , although most of the dwellings are concentrated in a smaller area , the outskirts of the town consisting of farmland . 


 = = Economy = = 


 Chatteris is sited in particularly fertile agricultural land , and as such , the town 's local economy is largely based on this industry . Alan Bartlett and Songs Ltd , a major British grower and packer of root vegetables has a large facility in the town with over 2 @,@ 500 hectares under cultivation , much of it growing parsnips and the Chantenay and Bushytops carrot . The company is a demerger of Albert Bartlett & Sons , which are now based in Scotland . Rustler Produce Ltd , also based in Chatteris , is another major player in this industry , and a number of smaller vegetable producers and processors operate in the Chatteris area . 

 Another major employer in the town is Metalcraft ( Stainless Metalcraft ( Chatteris ) Ltd ) . The company was established in the town in the late 19th century and over the years has manufactured diamond mining equipment and overhead cranes . The company is now part of the Avingtrans Group and specialises in creating engineered products for the oil , gas , nuclear and medical industries . 

 The town 's main retail outlets are situated in Market Hill and High Street . The town centre has a post office , a branch of Barclays , a large Aldi supermarket on Bridge Street and a small Budgens supermarket in the High Street . The town centre generally features more specialist non @-@ branch shops in the centre . In 2007 , the Petrou Brothers fish and chip shop in West Park Street won the National Chip Shop of the Year competition . The Cross Keys , The George Inn and The Bramley House are the town 's main hotel and bed @-@ and @-@ breakfast establishments , all located in the High Street or Market Hill . In addition to the Cross Keys and George , there are two further pubs ; The Ship in Bridge Street and The Honest John in South Park Street , and a number of small restaurants and tea shops . 

 A large Tesco supermarket was constructed on the outskirts of Chatteris at a cost of £ 22 million . It was due to be opened in November 2014 , but has been left unopened and empty following the company 's decision to halt the opening of 49 out @-@ of @-@ town supermarkets following poor financial results . As of April 2016 , Tesco are looking for another retailer to take over the store , which remains mothballed . 


 = = Religion = = 


 The 2001 Census found that 6 @,@ 596 ( 74 @.@ 8 % ) of people in the town stated Christian to be their religion , with 54 ( 0 @.@ 6 % ) of other religions and 2163 ( 24 @.@ 5 % ) as having no religion . 

 The parish church of St Peter & St Paul is situated in the centre of the town . A church has been on the site since at least 1162 , although the current tower dates from 1352 . The building had fallen into disrepair during the 19th century , and the majority of the building is the result of an intensive restoration in 1910 . This included restoring a pitched roof and adding new aisles , although the nave arches are original . In 1935 , a new two manual Harrison & Harrison organ was installed , a fine example of a pneumatic action instrument . Recent years have seen the construction of several new facilities , such as the Bricstan room extension . The church lists itself as being of the low church branch of the Church of England . The church also hosts the town 's Catholic congregation . 

 The Emmanuel Church in East Park Street was created through the union of the Methodist , United Reformed and Baptist Union churches in Chatteris in 1990 . It is based in the former United Reformed building in East Park Street , although several of the former chapel buildings still exist around the town . The town also has a Salvation Army citadel , also in East Park Street . 


 = = Education = = 


 The town has two primary schools , Kingsfield Primary School ( created in 2003 by the amalgamation of the former Burnsfield School and King Edward School ) and Glebelands School , which opened in the early months of 1994 . The town 's secondary school is Cromwell Community College , founded in 1939 . The school became an academy in 2012 . The Isle College used to have a presence in the town , with a base in Grove House . However , this closed following the College 's merger with the College of West Anglia . The town has a library run by Cambridgeshire County Council . 


 = = Sport and leisure = = 


 The town 's football club , Chatteris Town , was founded in 1920 and currently play in the Kershaw Premier Division of the Cambridgeshire Football Association County League . The town also has a cricket club , Chatteris Cricket Club , which was founded in 1879 . The club has five senior teams and four youth teams that compete in both the Fenland and Cambridgeshire leagues . Chatteris CC won the St Ivo Midweek League in 2008 and 2009 going both seasons unbeaten . The town also has a bowls club and a tennis club ( St Peters ) . Chatteris Airfield is about 2 kilometres ( 1 @.@ 2 mi ) north @-@ northeast , which is mainly used for skydiving , and is the base of the North London Skydiving Centre . A flying school is also based at the airfield . 

 The town has one swimming pool , the Empress , which is privately owned and is a registered charity run by three trustees . It is open to members and can be booked for private hires or group sessions . It is home of the Chatteris Kingfishers swimming club , who after successes in 2008 compete in Division One of the 2009 " Cambs Cup " competition . Plans for a public swimming pool and leisure centre have been proposed by the council since 1990 , but have yet to be approved . Proposals for the development of Cromwell Community College under the government 's BSF programme include significant leisure provisions and these are expected to start in 2010 . A new gym situated in the grounds of Cromwell Community College opened in 2013 . 


 = = Culture and community = = 


 The town is noted for its annual display of Christmas lights , which are entirely funded by community donations and have been featured on BBC Look East . In 2008 , a medieval @-@ themed Historical Festival replaced the town 's traditional festival week . 

 The town has a museum run by volunteers , with several permanent exhibitions about local history , the Fens , Victoriana and the Railways . Chatteris also has a Scout club , an Army Cadet force and a youth football team . 

 Chatteris has morning and evening Women 's Institutes , which both meet at the King Edward Centre , and a Rotary Club which meet at the local fire station , and put on an annual firework display , plus other events in the town . The town 's annual entry in the " Anglia in Bloom " competition was awarded a Silver Gilt in 2008 , and achieved a Gold in 2009 . The town also has a brass band , founded in 1882 , which competes in the East Anglian Brass Band Association . 

 In 2005 , British indie band Half Man Half Biscuit – perhaps best known for " The Trumpton Riots " and " Dickie Davies Eyes " – included a song entitled " For What Is Chatteris ... " on their award @-@ winning Achtung Bono album . The song extolled the virtues of the town , offset against how unsatisfying the best place in the world can suddenly become when the one you love is no longer there : " a market town that lacks quintessence / that 's Chatteris without your presence " . News of the song made the headlines of the Cambridgeshire Times and the Peterborough Evening Telegraph during September 2005 , a month before the album 's official release . 

 A Chatteris fish and chip shop won the 2006 National Fish and Chip Shop of the Year competition . The Petrou Brothers owners were presented with the award by chef Ainsley Harriott . 


 = = Notable residents = = 


 Eric Boon , boxer ; British Lightweight Champion 1938 @-@ 1944 . 

 George William Burdett Clare , Victoria Cross recipient for whom the doctors ' surgery is named . 

 Sir George Herbert Farrar , South African mining magnate , politician and soldier . 

 John Percy Farrar , English soldier and mountaineer . President of the Alpine Club from 1917 to 1919 and a member of the Mount Everest Committee . 

 Dave Boy Green , boxer . 

 Dominic Mohan ( former resident ) Editor of The Sun newspaper . 

 Joe Perry , snooker player 

 Joseph Ruston , engineer and MP . 

 Lindsay Shilling , Principal Trombonist at the Royal Opera House . 


 = = Transport = = 


 Chatteris is well served by local bus routes , with regular buses to the nearby towns of March , St Ives , Ely and the city of Cambridge . There are also occasional services to Huntingdon and Peterborough . 

 The nearest railway stations are in March and Manea . 



 = Mayer – Vietoris sequence = 


 In mathematics , particularly algebraic topology and homology theory , the Mayer – Vietoris sequence is an algebraic tool to help compute algebraic invariants of topological spaces , known as their homology and cohomology groups . The result is due to two Austrian mathematicians , Walther Mayer and Leopold Vietoris . The method consists of splitting a space into subspaces , for which the homology or cohomology groups may be easier to compute . The sequence relates the ( co ) homology groups of the space to the ( co ) homology groups of the subspaces . It is a natural long exact sequence , whose entries are the ( co ) homology groups of the whole space , the direct sum of the ( co ) homology groups of the subspaces , and the ( co ) homology groups of the intersection of the subspaces . 

 The Mayer – Vietoris sequence holds for a variety of cohomology and homology theories , including singular homology and singular cohomology . In general , the sequence holds for those theories satisfying the Eilenberg – Steenrod axioms , and it has variations for both reduced and relative ( co ) homology . Because the ( co ) homology of most spaces cannot be computed directly from their definitions , one uses tools such as the Mayer – Vietoris sequence in the hope of obtaining partial information . Many spaces encountered in topology are constructed by piecing together very simple patches . Carefully choosing the two covering subspaces so that , together with their intersection , they have simpler ( co ) homology than that of the whole space may allow a complete deduction of the ( co ) homology of the space . In that respect , the Mayer – Vietoris sequence is analogous to the Seifert – van Kampen theorem for the fundamental group , and a precise relation exists for homology of dimension one . 


 = = Background , motivation , and history = = 


 Like the fundamental group or the higher homotopy groups of a space , homology groups are important topological invariants . Although some ( co ) homology theories are computable using tools of linear algebra , many other important ( co ) homology theories , especially singular ( co ) homology , are not computable directly from their definition for nontrivial spaces . For singular ( co ) homology , the singular ( co ) chains and ( co ) cycles groups are often too big to handle directly . More subtle and indirect approaches become necessary . The Mayer – Vietoris sequence is such an approach , giving partial information about the ( co ) homology groups of any space by relating it to the ( co ) homology groups of two of its subspaces and their intersection . 

 The most natural and convenient way to express the relation involves the algebraic concept of exact sequences : sequences of objects ( in this case groups ) and morphisms ( in this case group homomorphisms ) between them such that the image of one morphism equals the kernel of the next . In general , this does not allow ( co ) homology groups of a space to be completely computed . However , because many important spaces encountered in topology are topological manifolds , simplicial complexes , or CW complexes , which are constructed by piecing together very simple patches , a theorem such as that of Mayer and Vietoris is potentially of broad and deep applicability . 

 Mayer was introduced to topology by his colleague Vietoris when attending his lectures in 1926 and 1927 at a local university in Vienna . He was told about the conjectured result and a way to its solution , and solved the question for the Betti numbers in 1929 . He applied his results to the torus considered as the union of two cylinders . Vietoris later proved the full result for the homology groups in 1930 but did not express it as an exact sequence . The concept of an exact sequence only appeared in print in the 1952 book Foundations of Algebraic Topology by Samuel Eilenberg and Norman Steenrod where the results of Ma