tured K 'iche ' lords burnt to death , and then proceeded to burn the entire city . After the destruction of Q 'umarkaj and the execution of its rulers , Pedro de Alvarado sent messages to Iximche , capital of the Kaqchikel , proposing an alliance against the remaining K 'iche ' resistance . Alvarado wrote that they sent 4000 warriors to assist him , although the Kaqchikel recorded that they sent only 400 . 


 = = = San Marcos : Province of Tecusitlán and Lacandón = = = 


 With the capitulation of the K 'iche ' kingdom , various non @-@ K 'iche ' peoples under K 'iche ' dominion also submitted to the Spanish . This included the Mam inhabitants of the area now within the modern department of San Marcos . Quetzaltenango and San Marcos were placed under the command of Juan de León y Cardona , who began the reduction of indigenous populations and the foundation of Spanish towns . The towns of San Marcos and San Pedro Sacatepéquez were founded soon after the conquest of western Guatemala . In 1533 Pedro de Alvarado ordered de León y Cardona to explore and conquer the area around the Tacaná , Tajumulco , Lacandón and San Antonio volcanoes ; in colonial times this area was referred to as the Province of Tecusitlán and Lacandón . De León marched to a Maya city named Quezalli by his Nahuatl @-@ speaking allies with a force of fifty Spaniards ; his Mexican allies also referred to the city by the name Sacatepequez . De León renamed the city as San Pedro Sacatepéquez in honour of his friar , Pedro de Angulo . The Spanish founded a village nearby at Candacuchex in April that year , renaming it as San Marcos . 


 = = = Kaqchikel alliance = = = 


 On 14 April 1524 , soon after the defeat of the K 'iche ' , the Spanish were invited into Iximche and were well received by the lords Belehe Qat and Cahi Imox . The Kaqchikel kings provided native soldiers to assist the conquistadors against continuing K 'iche ' resistance and to help with the defeat of the neighbouring Tz 'utuhil kingdom . The Spanish only stayed briefly in Iximche before continuing through Atitlán , Escuintla and Cuscatlán . The Spanish returned to the Kaqchikel capital on 23 July 1524 and on 27 July ( 1 Q 'at in the Kaqchikel calendar ) Pedro de Alvarado declared Iximche as the first capital of Guatemala , Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala ( " St. James of the Knights of Guatemala " ) . Iximche was called Guatemala by the Spanish , from the Nahuatl Quauhtemallan meaning " forested land " . Since the Spanish conquistadors founded their first capital at Iximche , they took the name of the city used by their Nahuatl @-@ speaking Mexican allies and applied it to the new Spanish city and , by extension , to the kingdom . From this comes the modern name of the country . When Pedro de Alvarado moved his army to Iximche , he left the defeated K 'iche ' kingdom under the command of Juan de León y Cardona . Although de León y Cardona was given command of the western reaches of the new colony , he continued to take an active role in the continuing conquest , including the later assault on the Poqomam capital . 


 = = = Conquest of the Tz 'utujil = = = 


 The Kaqchikel appear to have entered into an alliance with the Spanish to defeat their enemies , the Tz 'utujil , whose capital was Tecpan Atitlan . Pedro de Alvarado sent two Kaqchikel messengers to Tecpan Atitlan at the request of the Kaqchikel lords , both of whom were killed by the Tz 'utujil . When news of the killing of the messengers reached the Spanish at Iximche , the conquistadors marched against the Tz 'utujil with their Kaqchikel allies . Pedro de Alvarado left Iximche just 5 days after he had arrived there , with 60 cavalry , 150 Spanish infantry and an unspecified number of Kaqchikel warriors . The Spanish and their allies arrived at the lakeshore after a day 's hard march , without encountering any opposition . Seeing the lack of resistance , Alvarado rode ahead with 30 cavalry along the lake shore . Opposite a populated island the Spanish at last encountered hostile Tz 'utujil warriors and charged among them , scattering and pursuing them to a narrow causeway across which the surviving Tz 'utujil fled . The causeway was too narrow for the horses , therefore the conquistadors dismounted and crossed to the island before the inhabitants could break the bridges . The rest of Alvarado 's army soon reinforced his party and they successfully stormed the island . The surviving Tz 'utujil fled into the lake and swam to safety on another island . The Spanish could not pursue the survivors further because 300 canoes sent by the Kaqchikels had not yet arrived . This battle took place on 18 April . 

 The following day the Spanish entered Tecpan Atitlan but found it deserted . Pedro de Alvarado camped in the centre of the city and sent out scouts to find the enemy . They managed to catch some locals and used them to send messages to the Tz 'utujil lords , ordering them to submit to the king of Spain . The Tz 'utujil leaders responded by surrendering to Pedro de Alvarado and swearing loyalty to Spain , at which point Alvarado considered them pacified and returned to Iximche . Three days after Pedro de Alvarado returned to Iximche , the lords of the Tz 'utujil arrived there to pledge their loyalty and offer tribute to the conquistadors . A short time afterwards a number of lords arrived from the Pacific lowlands to swear allegiance to the king of Spain , although Alvarado did not name them in his letters ; they confirmed Kaqchikel reports that further out on the Pacific plain was the kingdom called Izcuintepeque in Nahuatl , or Panatacat in Kaqchikel , whose inhabitants were warlike and hostile towards their neighbours . 


 = = = Kaqchikel rebellion = = = 


 Pedro de Alvarado rapidly began to demand gold in tribute from the Kaqchikels , souring the friendship between the two peoples . He demanded that their kings deliver 1000 gold leaves , each worth 15 pesos . 

 A Kaqchikel priest foretold that the Kaqchikel gods would destroy the Spanish , causing the Kaqchikel people to abandon their city and flee to the forests and hills on 28 August 1524 ( 7 Ahmak in the Kaqchikel calendar ) . Ten days later the Spanish declared war on the Kaqchikel . Two years later , on 9 February 1526 , a group of sixteen Spanish deserters burnt the palace of the Ahpo Xahil , sacked the temples and kidnapped a priest , acts that the Kaqchikel blamed on Pedro de Alvarado . Conquistador Bernal Díaz del Castillo recounted how in 1526 he returned to Iximche and spent the night in the " old city of Guatemala " together with Luis Marín and other members of Hernán Cortés 's expedition to Honduras . He reported that the houses of the city were still in excellent condition ; his account was the last description of the city while it was still inhabitable . 

 The Spanish founded a new town at nearby Tecpán Guatemala ; Tecpán is Nahuatl for " palace " , thus the name of the new town translated as " the palace among the trees " . The Spanish abandoned Tecpán in 1527 , because of the continuous Kaqchikel attacks , and moved to the Almolonga Valley to the east , refounding their capital on the site of today 's San Miguel Escobar district of Ciudad Vieja , near Antigua Guatemala . The Nahua and Oaxacan allies of the Spanish settled in what is now central Ciudad Vieja , then known as Almolonga ( not to be confused with Almolonga near Quetzaltenango ) ; Zapotec and Mixtec allies also settled San Gaspar Vivar about 2 kilometres ( 1 @.@ 2 mi ) northeast of Almolonga , which they founded in 1530 . 

 The Kaqchikel kept up resistance against the Spanish for a number of years , but on 9 May 1530 , exhausted by the warfare that had seen the deaths of their best warriors and the enforced abandonment of their crops , the two kings of the most important clans returned from the wilds . A day later they were joined by many nobles and their families and many more people ; they then surrendered at the new Spanish capital at Ciudad Vieja . The former inhabitants of Iximche were dispersed ; some were moved to Tecpán , the rest to Sololá and other towns around Lake Atitlán . 


 = = = Siege of Zaculeu = = = 


 Although a state of hostilities existed between the Mam and the K 'iche ' of Q 'umarkaj after the rebellion of the Kaqchikel against their former K 'iche ' allies prior to European contact , when the conquistadors arrived there was a shift in the political landscape . Pedro de Alvarado described how the Mam king Kayb 'il B 'alam was received with great honour in Q 'umarkaj while he was there . The expedition against Zaculeu was apparently initiated after K 'iche ' bitterness at their failure to contain the Spanish at Q 'umarkaj , with the plan to trap the conquistadors in the city having been suggested to them by the Mam king , Kayb 'il B 'alam ; the resulting execution of the K 'iche ' kings was viewed as unjust . The K 'iche ' suggestion of marching on the Mam was quickly taken up by the Spanish . 

 At the time of the conquest , the main Mam population was situated in Xinabahul ( also spelled Chinabjul ) , now the city of Huehuetenango , but Zaculeu 's fortifications led to its use as a refuge during the conquest . The refuge was attacked by Gonzalo de Alvarado y Contreras , brother of conquistador Pedro de Alvarado , in 1525 , with 40 Spanish cavalry and 80 Spanish infantry , and some 2 @,@ 000 Mexican and K 'iche ' allies . Gonzalo de Alvarado left the Spanish camp at Tecpán Guatemala in July 1525 and marched to the town of Totonicapán , which he used as a supply base . From Totonicapán the expedition headed north to Momostenango , although it was delayed by heavy rains . Momostenango quickly fell to the Spanish after a four @-@ hour battle . The following day Gonzalo de Alvarado marched on Huehuetenango and was confronted by a Mam army of 5 @,@ 000 warriors from nearby Malacatán ( modern Malacatancito ) . The Mam army advanced across the plain in battle formation and was met by a Spanish cavalry charge that threw them into disarray , with the infantry mopping up those Mam that survived the cavalry . Gonzalo de Alvarado slew the Mam leader Canil Acab with his lance , at which point the Mam army 's resistance was broken , and the surviving warriors fled to the hills . Alvarado entered Malacatán unopposed to find it occupied only by the sick and the elderly . Messengers from the community 's leaders arrived from the hills and offered their unconditional surrender , which was accepted by Alvarado . The Spanish army rested for a few days , then continued onwards to Huehuetenango only to find it deserted . Kayb 'il B 'alam had received news of the Spanish advance and had withdrawn to his fortress at Zaculeu . Alvarado sent a message to Zaculeu proposing terms for the peaceful surrender of the Mam king , who chose not to answer . 

 Zaculeu was defended by Kayb 'il B 'alam commanding some 6 @,@ 000 warriors gathered from Huehuetenango , Zaculeu , Cuilco and Ixtahuacán . The fortress was surrounded on three sides by deep ravines and defended by a formidable system of walls and ditches . Gonzalo de Alvarado , although outnumbered two to one , decided to launch an assault on the weaker northern entrance . Mam warriors initially held the northern approaches against the Spanish infantry but fell back before repeated cavalry charges . The Mam defence was reinforced by an estimated 2 @,@ 000 warriors from within Zaculeu but was unable to push the Spanish back . Kayb 'il B 'alam , seeing that outright victory on an open battlefield was impossible , withdrew his army back within the safety of the walls . As Alvarado dug in and laid siege to the fortress , an army of approximately 8 @,@ 000 Mam warriors descended on Zaculeu from the Cuchumatanes mountains to the north , drawn from those towns allied with the city . Alvarado left Antonio de Salazar to supervise the siege and marched north to confront the Mam army . The Mam army was disorganised , and although it was a match for the Spanish and allied foot soldiers , it was vulnerable to the repeated charges of the experienced Spanish cavalry . The relief army was broken and annihilated , allowing Alvarado to return to reinforce the siege . After several months the Mam were reduced to starvation . Kayb 'il B 'alam finally surrendered the city to the Spanish in the middle of October 1525 . When the Spanish entered the city they found 1 @,@ 800 dead Indians , and the survivors eating the corpses of the dead . After the fall of Zaculeu , a Spanish garrison was established at Huehuetenango under the command of Gonzalo de Solís ; Gonzalo de Alvarado returned to Tecpán Guatemala to report his victory to his brother . 


 = = = Conquest of the Poqomam = = = 


 In 1525 Pedro de Alvarado sent a small company to conquer Mixco Viejo ( Chinautla Viejo ) , the capital of the Poqomam . At the Spanish approach , the inhabitants remained enclosed in the fortified city . The Spanish attempted an approach from the west through a narrow pass but were forced back with heavy losses . Alvarado himself launched the second assault with 200 Tlaxcalan allies but was also beaten back . The Poqomam then received reinforcements , possibly from Chinautla , and the two armies clashed on open ground outside of the city . The battle was chaotic and lasted for most of the day but was finally decided by the Spanish cavalry , forcing the Poqomam reinforcements to withdraw . The leaders of the reinforcements surrendered to the Spanish three days after their retreat and revealed that the city had a secret entrance in the form of a cave leading up from a nearby river , allowing the inhabitants to come and go . 

 Armed with the knowledge gained from their prisoners , Alvarado sent 40 men to cover the exit from the cave and launched another assault along the ravine from the west , in single file owing to its narrowness , with crossbowmen alternating with soldiers bearing muskets , each with a companion sheltering him from arrows and stones with a shield . This tactic allowed the Spanish to break through the pass and storm the entrance of the city . The Poqomam warriors fell back in disorder in a chaotic retreat through the city , and were hunted down by the victorious conquistadors and their allies . Those who managed to retreat down the neighbouring valley were ambushed by Spanish cavalry who had been posted to block the exit from the cave , the survivors were captured and brought back to the city . The siege had lasted more than a month and because of the defensive strength of the city , Alvarado ordered it to be burned and moved the inhabitants to the new colonial village of Mixco . 


 = = = Resettlement of the Chajoma = = = 


 There are no direct sources describing the conquest of the Chajoma by the Spanish but it appears to have been a drawn @-@ out campaign rather than a rapid victory . The only description of the conquest of the Chajoma is a secondary account appearing in the work of Francisco Antonio de Fuentes y Guzmán in the 17th century , long after the event . After the conquest , the inhabitants of the eastern part of the kingdom were relocated by the conquerors to San Pedro Sacatepéquez , including some of the inhabitants of the archaeological site now known as Mixco Viejo ( Jilotepeque Viejo ) . The rest of the population of Mixco Viejo , together with the inhabitants of the western part of the kingdom , were moved to San Martín Jilotepeque . The Chajoma rebelled against the Spanish in 1526 , fighting a battle at Ukub 'il , an unidentified site somewhere near the modern towns of San Juan Sacatepéquez and San Pedro Sacatepéquez . 

 In the colonial period , most of the surviving Chajoma were forcibly settled in the towns of San Juan Sacatepéquez , San Pedro Sacatepéquez and San Martín Jilotepeque as a result of the Spanish policy of congregaciones ; the people were moved to whichever of the three towns was closest to their pre @-@ conquest land holdings . Some Iximche Kaqchikels seem also to have been relocated to the same towns . After their relocation some of the Chajoma drifted back to their pre @-@ conquest centres , creating informal settlements and provoking hostilities with the Poqomam of Mixco and Chinautla along the former border between the pre @-@ Columbian kingdoms . Some of these settlements eventually received official recognition , such as San Raimundo near Sacul . 


 = = = El Progreso and Zacapa = = = 


 The Spanish colonial corregimiento of San Cristóbal Acasaguastlán was established in 1551 with its seat in the town of that name , now in the eastern portion of the modern department of El Progreso . Acasaguastlán was one of few pre @-@ conquest centres of population in the middle Motagua River drainage , due to the arid climate . It covered a broad area that included Cubulco , Rabinal , and Salamá ( all in Baja Verapaz ) , San Agustín de la Real Corona ( modern San Agustín Acasaguastlán ) and La Magdalena in El Progreso , and Chimalapa , Gualán , Usumatlán and Zacapa , all in the department of Zacapa . Chimalapa , Gualán and Usumatlán were all satellite settlements of Acasaguastlán . San Cristóbal Acasaguastlán and the surrounding area were reduced into colonial settlements by friars of the Dominican Order ; at the time of the conquest the area was inhabited by Poqomchi ' Maya and by the Nahuatl @-@ speaking Pipil . In the 1520s , immediately after conquest , the inhabitants paid taxes to the Spanish Crown in the form of cacao , textiles , gold , silver and slaves . Within a few decades taxes were instead paid in beans , cotton and maize . Acasaguastlán was first given in encomienda to conquistador Diego Salvatierra in 1526 . 


 = = = Chiquimula = = = 


 Chiquimula de la Sierra ( " Chiquimula in the Highlands " ) , occupying the area of the modern department of Chiquimula to the east of the Poqomam and Chajoma , was inhabited by Ch 'orti ' Maya at the time of the conquest . The first Spanish reconnaissance of this region took place in 1524 by an expedition that included Hernando de Chávez , Juan Durán , Bartolomé Becerra and Cristóbal Salvatierra , amongst others . In 1526 three Spanish captains , Juan Pérez Dardón , Sancho de Barahona and Bartolomé Becerra , invaded Chiquimula on the orders of Pedro de Alvarado . The indigenous population soon rebelled against excessive Spanish demands , but the rebellion was quickly put down in April 1530 . However , the region was not considered fully conquered until a campaign by Jorge de Bocanegra in 1531 – 1532 that also took in parts of Jalapa . The afflictions of Old World diseases , war and overwork in the mines and encomiendas took a heavy toll on the inhabitants of eastern Guatemala , to the extent that indigenous population levels never recovered to their pre @-@ conquest levels . 


 = = = Campaigns in the Cuchumatanes = = = 


 In the ten years after the fall of Zaculeu various Spanish expeditions crossed into the Sierra de los Cuchumatanes and engaged in the gradual and complex conquest of the Chuj and Q 'anjob 'al . The Spanish were attracted to the region in the hope of extracting gold , silver and other riches from the mountains but their remoteness , the difficult terrain and relatively low population made their conquest and exploitation extremely difficult . The population of the Cuchumatanes is estimated to have been 260 @,@ 000 before European contact . By the time the Spanish physically arrived in the region this had collapsed to 150 @,@ 000 because of the effects of the Old World diseases that had run ahead of them . 


 = = = = Uspantán and the Ixil = = = = 


 After the western portion of the Cuchumatanes fell to the Spanish , the Ixil and Uspantek Maya were sufficiently isolated to evade immediate Spanish attention . The Uspantek and the Ixil were allies and in 1529 , four years after the conquest of Huehuetenango , Uspantek warriors were harassing Spanish forces and Uspantán was trying to foment rebellion among the K 'iche ' . Uspantek activity became sufficiently troublesome that the Spanish decided that military action was necessary . Gaspar Arias , magistrate of Guatemala , penetrated the eastern Cuchumatanes with sixty Spanish infantry and three hundred allied indigenous warriors . By early September he had imposed temporary Spanish authority over the Ixil towns of Chajul and Nebaj . The Spanish army then marched east toward Uspantán itself ; Arias then received notice that the acting governor of Guatemala , Francisco de Orduña , had deposed him as magistrate . Arias handed command over to the inexperienced Pedro de Olmos and returned to confront de Orduña . Although his officers advised against it , Olmos launched a disastrous full @-@ scale frontal assault on the city . As soon as the Spanish began their assault they were ambushed from the rear by more than two thousand Uspantek warriors . The Spanish forces were routed with heavy losses ; many of their indigenous allies were slain , and many more were captured alive by the Uspantek warriors only to be sacrificed on the altar of their deity Exbalamquen . The survivors who managed to evade capture fought their way back to the Spanish garrison at Q 'umarkaj . 

 A year later Francisco de Castellanos set out from Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala ( by now relocated to Ciudad Vieja ) on another expedition against the Ixil and Uspantek , leading eight corporals , thirty @-@ two cavalry , forty Spanish infantry and several hundred allied indigenous warriors . The expedition rested at Chichicastenango and recruited further forces before marching seven leagues northwards to Sacapulas and climbed the steep southern slopes of the Cuchumatanes . On the upper slopes they clashed with a force of between four and five thousand Ixil warriors from Nebaj and nearby settlements . A lengthy battle followed during which the Spanish cavalry managed to outflank the Ixil army and forced them to retreat to their mountaintop fortress at Nebaj . The Spanish force besieged the city , and their indigenous allies managed to scale the walls , penetrate the stronghold and set it on fire . Many defending Ixil warriors withdrew to fight the fire , which allowed the Spanish to storm the entrance and break the defences . The victorious Spanish rounded up the surviving defenders and the next day Castellanos ordered them all to be branded as slaves as punishment for their resistance . The inhabitants of Chajul immediately capitulated to the Spanish as soon as news of the battle reached them . The Spanish continued east towards Uspantán to find it defended by ten thousand warriors , including forces from Cotzal , Cunén , Sacapulas and Verapaz . The Spaniards were barely able to organise a defence before the defending army attacked . Although heavily outnumbered , the deployment of Spanish cavalry and the firearms of the Spanish infantry eventually decided the battle . The Spanish overran Uspantán and again branded all surviving warriors as slaves . The surrounding towns also surrendered , and December 1530 marked the end of the military stage of the conquest of the Cuchumatanes . 


 = = = = Reduction of the Chuj and Q 'anjob 'al = = = = 


 In 1529 the Chuj city of San Mateo Ixtatán ( then known by the name of Ystapalapán ) was given in encomienda to the conquistador Gonzalo de Ovalle , a companion of Pedro de Alvarado , together with Santa Eulalia and Jacaltenango . In 1549 , the first reduction ( reducción in Spanish ) of San Mateo Ixtatán took place , overseen by Dominican missionaries , in the same year the Q 'anjob 'al reducción settlement of Santa Eulalia was founded . Further Q 'anjob 'al reducciones were in place at San Pedro Soloma , San Juan Ixcoy and San Miguel Acatán by 1560 . Q 'anjob 'al resistance was largely passive , based on withdrawal to the inaccessible mountains and forests from the Spanish reducciones . In 1586 the Mercedarian Order built the first church in Santa Eulalia . The Chuj of San Mateo Ixtatán remained rebellious and resisted Spanish control for longer than their highland neighbours , resistance that was possible owing to their alliance with the lowland Lakandon Ch 'ol to the north . The continued resistance was so determined that the Chuj remained pacified only while the immediate effects of the Spanish expeditions lasted . 

 In the late 17th century , the Spanish missionary Fray Alonso de León reported that about eighty families in San Mateo Ixtatán did not pay tribute to the Spanish Crown or attend the Roman Catholic mass . He described the inhabitants as quarrelsome and complained that they had built a pagan shrine in the hills among the ruins of pre @-@ Columbian temples , where they burnt incense and offerings and sacrificed turkeys . He reported that every March they built bonfires around wooden crosses about two leagues from the town and set them on fire . Fray de León informed the colonial authorities that the practices of the natives were such that they were Christian in name only . Eventually , Fray de León was chased out of San Mateo Ixtatán by the locals . 

 In 1684 , a council led by Enrique Enríquez de Guzmán , the governor of Guatemala , decided on the reduction of San Mateo Ixtatán and nearby Santa Eulalia , both within the colonial administrative district of the Corregimiento of Huehuetenango . 

 On 29 January 1686 , Captain Melchor Rodríguez Mazariegos , acting under orders from the governor , left Huehuetenango for San Mateo Ixtatán , where he recruited indigenous warriors from the nearby villages , 61 from San Mateo itself . It was believed by the Spanish colonial authorities that the inhabitants of San Mateo Ixtatán were friendly towards the still unconquered and fiercely hostile inhabitants of the Lacandon region , which included parts of what is now the Mexican state of Chiapas and the western part of the Petén Basin . To prevent news of the Spanish advance reaching the inhabitants of the Lacandon area , the governor ordered the capture of three of San Mateo 's community leaders , named as Cristóbal Domingo , Alonso Delgado and Gaspar Jorge , and had them sent under guard to be imprisoned in Huehuetenango . The governor himself arrived in San Mateo Ixtatán on 3 February , where Captain Rodríguez Mazariegos was already awaiting him . The governor ordered the captain to remain in the village and use it as a base of operations for penetrating the Lacandon region . The Spanish missionaries Fray de Rivas and Fray Pedro de la Concepción also remained in the town . Governor Enriquez de Guzmán subsequently left San Mateo Ixtatán for Comitán in Chiapas , to enter the Lacandon region via Ocosingo . 

 In 1695 , a three @-@ way invasion of the Lacandon was launched simultaneously from San Mateo Ixtatán , Cobán and Ocosingo . Captain Rodriguez Mazariegos , accompanied by Fray de Rivas and 6 other missionaries together with 50 Spanish soldiers , left Huehuetenango for San Mateo Ixtatán . Following the same route used in 1686 , they managed on the way to recruit 200 indigenous Maya warriors from Santa Eulalia , San Juan Solomá and San Mateo itself . On 28 February 1695 , all three groups left their respective bases of operations to conquer the Lacandon . The San Mateo group headed northeast into the Lacandon Jungle . 


 = = Pacific lowlands : Pipil and Xinca = = 


 Before the arrival of the Spanish , the western portion of the Pacific plain was dominated by the K 'iche ' and Kaqchikel states , while the eastern portion was occupied by the Pipil and the Xinca . The Pipil inhabited the area of the modern department of Escuintla and a part of Jutiapa ; the main Xinca territory lay to the east of the main Pipil population in what is now Santa Rosa department ; there were also Xinca in Jutiapa . 

 In the half century preceding the arrival of the Spanish , the Kaqchikel were frequently at war with the Pipil of Izcuintepeque ( modern Escuintla ) . By March 1524 the K 'iche had been defeated , followed by a Spanish alliance with the Kaqchikel in April of the same year . On 8 May 1524 , soon after his arrival in Iximche and immediately following his subsequent conquest of the Tz 'utujil around Lake Atitlán , Pedro de Alvarado continued southwards to the Pacific coastal plain with an army numbering approximately 6000 , where he defeated the Pipil of Panacal or Panacaltepeque ( called Panatacat in the Annals of the Kaqchikels ) near Izcuintepeque on 9 May . Alvarado described the terrain approaching the town as very difficult , covered with dense vegetation and swampland that made the use of cavalry impossible ; instead he sent men with crossbows ahead . The Pipil withdrew their scouts because of the heavy rain , believing that the Spanish and their allies would not be able to reach the town that day . However , Pedro de Alvarado pressed ahead and when the Spanish entered the town the defenders were completely unprepared , with the Pipil warriors indoors sheltering from the torrential rain . In the battle that ensued , the Spanish and their indigenous allies suffered minor losses but the Pipil were able to flee into the forest , sheltered from Spanish pursuit by the weather and the vegetation . Pedro de Alvarado ordered the town to be burnt and sent messengers to the Pipil lords demanding their surrender , otherwise he would lay waste to their lands . According to Alvarado 's letter to Cortés , the Pipil came back to the town and submitted to him , accepting the king of Spain as their overlord . The Spanish force camped in the captured town for eight days . A few years later , in 1529 , Pedro de Alvarado was accused of using excessive brutality in his conquest of Izcuintepeque , amongst other atrocities . 

 In Guazacapán , now a municipality in Santa Rosa , Pedro de Alvardo described his encounter with people who were neither Maya nor Pipil , speaking a different language altogether ; these people were probably Xinca . At this point Alvarado 's force consisted of 250 Spanish infantry accompanied by 6 @,@ 000 indigenous allies , mostly Kaqchikel and Cholutec . Alvarado and his army defeated and occupied the most important Xinca city , named as Atiquipaque , usually considered to be in the Taxisco area . The defending warriors were described by Alvarado as engaging in fierce hand @-@ to @-@ hand combat using spears , stakes and poisoned arrows . The battle took place on 26 May 1524 and resulted in a significant reduction of the Xinca population . Alvarado 's army continued eastwards from Atiquipaque , seizing several more Xinca cities . Tacuilula feigned a peaceful reception only to unsuccessfully raise arms against the conquistadors within an hour of their arrival . Taxisco and Nancintla fell soon afterwards . Because Alvarado and his allies could not understand the Xinca language , Alvarado took extra precautions on the march eastward by strengthening his vanguard and rearguard with ten cavalry apiece . In spite of these precautions the baggage train was ambushed by a Xinca army soon after leaving Taxisco . Many indigenous allies were killed and most of the baggage was lost , including all the crossbows and ironwork for the horses . This was a serious setback and Alvarado camped his army in Nancintla for eight days , during which time he sent two expeditions against the attacking army . Jorge de Alvarado led the first attempt with thirty to forty cavalry and although they routed the enemy they were unable to retrieve any of the lost baggage , much of which had been destroyed by the Xinca for use as trophies . Pedro de Portocarrero led the second attempt with a large infantry detachment but was unable to engage with the enemy due to the difficult mountain terrain , so returned to Nancintla . Alvarado sent out Xinca messengers to make contact with the enemy but they failed to return . Messengers from the city of Pazaco , in the modern department of Jutiapa , offered peace to the conquistadors but when Alvarado arrived there the next day the inhabitants were preparing for war . Alvarado 's troops encountered a sizeable quantity of gathered warriors and quickly routed them through the city 's streets . From Pazaco Alvarado crossed the Río Paz and entered what is now El Salvador . 

 After the conquest of the Pacific plain , the inhabitants paid tribute to the Spanish in the form of valuable products such as cacao , cotton , salt and vanilla , with an emphasis on cacao . 


 = = Northern lowlands = = 


 The Contact Period in Guatemala 's northern Petén lowlands lasted from 1525 through to 1700 . Superior Spanish weaponry and the use of cavalry , although decisive in the northern Yucatán , were ill @-@ suited to warfare in the dense forests of lowland Guatemala . 


 = = = Cortés in Petén = = = 


 In 1525 , after the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire , Hernán Cortés led an expedition to Honduras over land , cutting across the Itza kingdom in what is now the northern Petén Department of Guatemala . His aim was to subdue the rebellious Cristóbal de Olid , whom he had sent to conquer Honduras , but Cristóbal de Olid had set himself up independently on his arrival in that territory . Cortés had 140 Spanish soldiers , 93 of them mounted , 3 @,@ 000 Mexican warriors , 150 horses , a herd of pigs , artillery , munitions and other supplies . He also had with him 600 Chontal Maya carriers from Acalan . They arrived at the north shore of Lake Petén Itzá on 13 March 1525 . 

 Cortés accepted an invitation from Aj Kan Ek ' , the king of the Itza , to visit Nojpetén ( also known as Tayasal ) , and crossed to the Maya city with 20 Spanish soldiers while the rest of his army continued around the lake to meet him on the south shore . On his departure from Nojpetén , Cortés left behind a cross and a lame horse . The Spanish did not officially contact the Itza again until the arrival of Franciscan priests in 1618 , when Cortés ' cross was said to still be standing at Nojpetén . From the lake , Cortés continued south along the western slopes of the Maya Mountains , a particularly arduous journey that took 12 days to cover 32 kilometres ( 20 mi ) , during which he lost more than two @-@ thirds of his horses . When he came to a river swollen with the constant torrential rains that had been falling during the expedition , Cortés turned upstream to the Gracias a Dios rapids , which took two days to cross and cost him more horses . 

 On 15 April 1525 the expedition arrived at the Maya village of Tenciz . With local guides they headed into the hills north of Lake Izabal , where their guides abandoned them to their fate . The expedition became lost in the hills and came close to starvation before they captured a Maya boy who led them out to safety . Cortés found a village on the shore of Lake Izabal , perhaps Xocolo . He crossed the Dulce River to the settlement of Nito , somewhere on the Amatique Bay , with about a dozen companions , and waited there for the rest of his army to regroup over the course of the next week . By this time the remnants of the expedition had been reduced to a few hundred ; Cortés succeeded in contacting the Spaniards he was searching for , only to find that Cristóbal de Olid 's own officers had already put down his rebellion . Cortés then returned to Mexico by sea . 


 = = = Land of War : Verapaz = = = 


 By 1537 the area immediately north of the new colony of Guatemala was being referred to as the Tierra de Guerra ( " Land of War " ) . Paradoxically , it was simultaneously known as Verapaz ( " True Peace " ) . The Land of War described an area that was undergoing conquest ; it was a region of dense forest that was difficult for the Spanish to penetrate militarily . Whenever the Spanish located a centre of population in this region , the inhabitants were moved and concentrated in a new colonial settlement near the edge of the jungle where the Spanish could more easily control them . This strategy resulted in the gradual depopulation of the forest , simultaneously converting it into a wilderness refuge for those fleeing Spanish domination , both for individual refugees and for entire communities , especially those congregaciones that were remote from centres of colonial authority . The Land of War , from the 16th century through to the start of the 18th century , included a vast area from Sacapulas in the west to Nito on the Caribbean coast and extended northwards from Rabinal and Salamá , and was an intermediate area between the highlands and the northern lowlands . It includes the modern departments of Baja Verapaz and Alta Verapaz , Izabal and Petén , as well as the eastern part of El Quiché and a part of the Mexican state of Chiapas . The western portion of this area was the territory of the Q 'eqchi ' Maya . 

 Pedro Orozco , the leader of the Sacatepéquez Mam of San Marcos department , lent willing help to the Dominicans in their campaign to peacefully subject the inhabitants of Verapaz . On 1 May 1543 Carlos V rewarded the Sacatepéquez Mam by issuing a royal order promising never to give them in encomienda . 

 Dominican friar Bartolomé de las Casas arrived in the colony of Guatemala in 1537 and immediately campaigned to replace violent military conquest with peaceful missionary work . Las Casas offered to achieve the conquest of the Land of War through the preaching of the Catholic faith . It was the Dominicans who promoted the use of the name Verapaz instead of the Land of War . Because of the fact that the land had not been possible to conquer by military means , the governor of Guatemala , Alonso de Maldonado , agreed to sign a contract promising he would not establish any new encomiendas in the area should Las Casas ' strategy succeed . Las Casas and a group of Dominican friars established themselves in Rabinal , Sacapulas and Cobán , and managed to convert several native chiefs using a strategy of teaching Christian songs to merchant Indian Christians who then ventured into the area . 

 In this way they congregated a group of Christian Indians in the location of what is now the town of Rabinal . Las Casas became instrumental in the introduction of the New Laws in 1542 , established by the Spanish Crown to control the excesses of the conquistadors and colonists against the indigenous inhabitants of the Americas . As a result , the Dominicans met substantial resistance from the Spanish colonists , who saw their own interests threatened by the New Laws ; this distracted the Dominicans from their efforts to establish peaceful control over the Land of War . 

 In 1543 the new colonial reducción of Santo Domingo de Cobán was founded at Chi Mon 'a to house the relocated Q 'eqchi ' from Chichen , Xucaneb and Al Run Tax Aj . Santo Tomás Apóstol was founded nearby the same year at Chi Nim Xol , it was used in 1560 as a reducción to resettle Ch 'ol communities from Topiltepeque and Lacandon in the Usumacinta Valley . In 1555 the Acala Ch 'ol and their Lacandon allies killed the Spanish friar Domingo de Vico . De Vico had established a small church among the inhabitants of San Marcos , a region that lay between the territories of the Lacandon and the Manche Ch 'ol ( an area unrelated to the department of San Marcos ) . De Vico had offended the local ruler by repeatedly scolding him for taking several wives . The indigenous leader shot the friar through the throat with an arrow ; the angry natives then seized him , cut open his chest and extracted his heart . His corpse was then decapitated ; the natives carried off his head , which was never recovered by the Spanish . In response a punitive expedition was launched , headed by Juan Matalbatz , a Q 'eqchi ' leader from Chamelco ; the independent Indians captured by the Q 'eqchi ' expedition were taken back to Cobán and resettled in Santo Tomás Apóstol . 


 = = = Lake Izabal and the lower Motagua River = = = 


 The Dominicans established themselves in Xocolo on the shore of Lake Izabal in the mid @-@ 16th century . Xocolo became infamous among the Dominican missionaries for the practice of witchcraft by its inhabitants . By 1574 it was the most important staging post for European expeditions into the interior , and it remained important in that role until as late as 1630 , although it was abandoned in 1631 . 

 In 1598 Alfonso Criado de Castilla became governor of the Captaincy General of Guatemala . Owing to the poor state of Puerto Caballos on the Honduran coast and its exposure to repeated pirate raids he sent a pilot to scout Lake Izabal . As a result of the survey , and after royal permission was granted , Criado de Castilla ordered the construction of a new port , named Santo Tomás de Castilla , at a favourable spot on the Amatique Bay not far from the lake . Work then began on building a highway from the port to the new capital of the colony , modern Antigua Guatemala , following the Motagua Valley into the highlands . Indigenous guides scouting the route from the highlands would not proceed further downriver than three leagues below Quiriguá , because the area was inhabited by the hostile Toquegua . 

 The leaders of Xocolo and Amatique , backed by the threat of Spanish action , persuaded a community of 190 Toquegua to settle on the Amatique coast in April 1604 . The new settlement immediately suffered a drop in population , but although the Amatique Toquegua were reported extinct before 1613 in some sources , Mercedarian friars were still attending to them in 1625 . In 1628 the towns of the Manche Ch 'ol were placed under the administration of the governor of Verapaz , with Francisco Morán as their ecclesiastical head . Morán favoured a more robust approach to the conversion of the Manche and moved Spanish soldiers into the region to protect against raids from the Itza to the north . The new Spanish garrison in an area that had not previously seen a heavy Spanish military presence provoked the Manche to revolt , which was followed by abandonment of the indigenous settlements . By 1699 the neighbouring Toquegua no longer existed as a separate people because of a combination of high mortality and intermarriage with the Amatique Indians . At around this time the Spanish decided on the reduction of the independent ( or " wild " from the Spanish point of view ) Mopan Maya living to the north of Lake Izabal . The north shore of the lake , although fertile , was by then largely depopulated , therefore the Spanish planned to bring the Mopan out of the forests to the north into an area where they could be more easily controlled . 

 During the campaign to conquer the Itza of Petén , the Spanish sent expeditions to harass and relocate the Mopan north of Lake Izabal and the Ch 'ol Maya of the Amatique forests to the east . They were resettled in the Colonial reducción of San Antonio de las Bodegas on the south shore of the lake and in San Pedro de Amatique . By the latter half of the 18th century the indigenous population of these towns had disappeared ; the local inhabitants now consisted entirely of Spaniards , mulattos and others of mixed race , all associated with the Castillo de San Felipe de Lara fort guarding the entrance to Lake Izabal . The main cause of the drastic depopulation of Lake Izabal and the Motagua Delta was the constant slave raids by the Miskito Sambu of the Caribbean coast that effectively ended the Maya population of the region ; the captured Maya were sold into slavery in the British colony of Jamaica . 


 = = = Conquest of Petén = = = 


 From 1527 onwards the Spanish were increasingly active in the Yucatán Peninsula , establishing a number of colonies and towns by 1544 , including Campeche and Valladolid in what is now Mexico . The Spanish impact on the northern Maya , encompassing invasion , epidemic diseases and the export of up to 50 @,@ 000 Maya slaves , caused many Maya to flee southwards to join the Itza around Lake Petén Itzá , within the modern borders of Guatemala . The Spanish were aware that the Itza Maya had become the centre of anti @-@ Spanish resistance and engaged in a policy of encircling their kingdom and cutting their trade routes over the course of almost two hundred years . The Itza resisted this steady encroachment by recruiting their neighbours as allies against the slow Spanish advance . 

 Dominican missionaries were active in Verapaz and the southern Petén from the late 16th century through the 17th century , attempting non @-@ violent conversion with limited success . In the 17th century the Franciscans came to the conclusion that the pacification and Christian conversion of the Maya would not be possible as long as the Itza held out at Lake Petén Itzá . The constant flow of escapees fleeing the Spanish @-@ held territories to find refuge with the Itza was a drain on the encomiendas . Fray Bartolomé de Fuensalida visited Nojpetén in 1618 and 1619 . The Franciscan missionaries attempted to use their own reinterpretation of the k 'atun prophecies when they visited Nojpetén at this time , to convince the current Aj Kan Ek ' and his Maya priesthood that the time for conversion had come . But the Itza priesthood interpreted the prophecies differently , and the missionaries were fortunate to escape with their lives . In 1695 the colonial authorities decided to connect the province of Guatemala with Yucatán , and Guatemalan soldiers conquered a number of Ch 'ol communities , the most important being Sakb 'ajlan on the Lacantún River in eastern Chiapas , now in Mexico , which was renamed as Nuestra Señora de Dolores , or Dolores del Lakandon . The Franciscan friar Andrés de Avendaño oversaw a second attempt to overcome the Itza in 1695 , convincing the Itza king that the K 'atun 8 Ajaw , a twenty @-@ year Maya calendrical cycle beginning in 1696 or 1697 , was the right time for the Itza to finally embrace Christianity and to accept the king of Spain as overlord . However the Itza had local Maya enemies who resisted this conversion , and in 1696 Avendaño was fortunate to escape with his life . The Itza 's continued resistance had become a major embarrassment for the Spanish colonial authorities , and soldiers were despatched from Campeche to take Nojpetén once and for all . 


 = = = = Fall of Nojpetén = = = = 


 Martín de Ursúa y Arizmendi arrived on the western shore of lake Petén Itzá with his soldiers in February 1697 , and once there built a galeota , a large and heavily armed oar @-@ powered attack boat . The Itza capital fell in a bloody waterborne assault on 13 March 1697 . The Spanish bombardment caused heavy loss of life on the island ; many Itza Maya who fled to swim across the lake were killed in the water . After the battle the surviving defenders melted away into the forests , leaving the Spanish to occupy an abandoned Maya town . The Itza and Kowoj kings ( Ajaw Kan Ek ' and Aj Kowoj ) were soon captured , together with other Maya nobles and their families . With Nojpetén safely in the hands of the Spanish , Ursúa returned to Campeche ; he left a small garrison on the island , isolated amongst the hostile Itza and Kowoj who still dominated the mainland . Nojpetén was renamed by the Spanish as Nuestra Señora de los Remedios y San Pablo , Laguna del Itza ( " Our Lady of Remedy and Saint Paul , Lake of the Itza " ) . The garrison was reinforced in 1699 by a military expedition from Guatemala , accompanied by mixed @-@ race ladino civilians who came to found their own town around the military camp . The settlers brought disease with them , which killed many soldiers and colonists and swept through the indigenous population . The Guatemalans stayed just three months before returning to Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala , taking the captive Itza king with them , together with his son and two of his cousins . The cousins died on the long journey to the colonial capital ; Ajaw Kan Ek ' and his son spent the rest of their lives under house arrest in the capital . 


 = = = Final years of conquest = = = 


 In the late 17th century the small population of Ch 'ol Maya in southern Petén and Belize was forcibly removed to Alta Verapaz , where the people were absorbed into the Q 'eqchi ' population . The Ch 'ol of the Lacandon Jungle were resettled in Huehuetenango in the early 18th century . Catholic priests from Yucatán founded several mission towns around Lake Petén Itzá in 1702 – 1703 . Surviving Itza and Kowoj were resettled in the new colonial towns by a mixture of persuasion and force . Kowoj and Itza leaders in these mission towns rebelled against their Spanish overlords in 1704 , but although well @-@ planned , the rebellion was quickly crushed . Its leaders were executed and most of the mission towns were abandoned . By 1708 only about 6 @,@ 000 Maya remained in central Petén , compared to ten times that number in 1697 . Although disease was responsible for the majority of deaths , Spanish expeditions and internecine warfare between indigenous groups also played their part . 


 = = Legacy of the Spanish conquest = = 


 The initial shock of the Spanish conquest was followed by decades of heavy exploitation of the indigenous peoples , allies and foes alike . Over the following two hundred years colonial rule gradually imposed Spanish cultural standards on the subjugated peoples . The Spanish reducciones created new nucleated settlements laid out in a grid pattern in the Spanish style , with a central plaza , a church and the town hall housing the civil government , known as the ayuntamiento . This style of settlement can still be seen in the villages and towns of the area . The civil government was either run directly by the Spanish and their descendents ( the criollos ) or was tightly controlled by them . The introduction of Catholicism was the main vehicle for cultural change , and resulted in religious syncretism . Old World cultural elements came to be thoroughly adopted by Maya groups , an example being the marimba , a musical instrument of African origin . The greatest change was the sweeping aside of the pre @-@ Columbian economic order and its replacement by European technology and livestock ; this included the introduction of iron and steel tools to replace Neolithic tools , and of cattle , pigs and chickens that largely replaced the consumption of game . New crops were also introduced ; however , sugarcane and coffee led to plantations that economically exploited native labour . Sixty per cent of the modern population of Guatemala is estimated to be Maya , concentrated in the central and western highlands . The eastern portion of the country was the object of intense Spanish migration and hispanicization . Guatemalan society is divided into a class system largely based on race , with Maya peasants and artisans at the bottom , the mixed @-@ race ladino salaried workers and bureaucrats forming the middle and lower class and above them the creole elite of pure European ancestry . Some indigenous elites such as the Xajil did manage to maintain a level of status into the colonial period ; a prominent Kaqchikel noble family , they chronicled the history of their region . 



 = 1994 Giro d 'Italia = 


 The 1994 Giro d 'Italia was the 77th edition of the Giro d 'Italia , one of cycling 's Grand Tours . The Giro started off in Bologna on 22 May with a short 86 km ( 53 @.@ 4 mi ) stage . The race came to a close on 12 June with a flat stage that stretched 198 km ( 123 @.@ 0 mi ) from Turin to Milan . Seventeen teams entered the race , which was won by Evgeni Berzin of the Gewiss – Ballan team . Second and third respectively were the Italian Marco Pantani and the Spanish rider , Miguel Indurain . 

 Berzin first gained the race lead after the fourth stage where he attacked on the final climb to win the day . The race 's overall classification was first headed by Endrio Leoni who won the Giro 's opening road stage . However , Leoni lost the lead later that day during the afternoon individual time trial to Armand de Las Cuevas . De Las Cuevas held the lead for a single stage before losing it to Moreno Argentin who won the race 's second stage . Argentin held the general classification lead for two stages , before Berzin took it after stage 4 . After gaining the lead , Berzin began to build upon his advantage after winning the stage 8 and 18 individual time trials and maintaining good form throughout the mountains . 

 Berzin became the first Russian to win the Giro d 'Italia . Berzin also won the young rider classification for the best rider aged 25 or under in the general classification . In the race 's other classifications , Swiss rider Pascal Richard won the mountains classification , and Djamolidine Abdoujaparov of Team Polti – Vaporetto was the winner of the points and intergiro classifications . Carrera Jeans – Tassoni finished as the winners of the team classification , which ranked each of the seventeen teams contesting the race by lowest cumulative time . Team Polti – Vaporetto finished as the winners of the team points classification , where the teams ' riders are awarded points for placing within the top twenty in each stage . 


 = = Teams = = 


 A total of 18 teams were invited to participate in the 1994 Giro d 'Italia , of which 17 participated . Each team sent a squad of nine riders , so the Giro began with a peloton of 153 cyclists . The presentation of the teams – where each team 's roster and manager were introduced in front the media and local dignitaries – took place on 22 May , in the courtyard of the Bologna . Of the riders that started this edition of the Giro d 'Italia , a total of 99 riders made it to the finish in Milan . 

 The teams entering the race were : 


 = = Pre @-@ race favorites = = 


 The starting peloton did 1993 winner , Miguel Indurain , came into the race having only raced twenty days during the season according to author Bill McGann . In addition , there were reports surfacing before the race that Indurain 's knee was troubling him . The race did not feature Tony Rominger , who elected to ride the Vuelta a España instead . El País writer Carlos Arribas felt that Evgeni Berzin had a strong spring with his victory in Liège – Bastogne – Liège and second @-@ place finish in the Tour of the Basque Country . Arribas felt that Russian Pavel Tonkov , who had won the young rider classification the previous two years , would challenge for the victory as his normal team leader , Maurizio Fondriest , was absent from the race due to injury . 

 Avui 's Adrian R. Huber believed that Djamolidine Abdoujaparov , Adriano Baffi , and Fabio Baldato had a great chance to win a stage in the race . Notable sprinter Mario Cipollini did not participate in the race as he was still recovering from injuries sustained in the second stage at the Vuelta a España . 


 = = Route and stages = = 


 The route for the 1994 Giro d 'Italia was unveiled by race director Carmine Castellano on 13 November 13 , 1993 in Milan . The race route in its entireity was leaked to the press before Castellano held the official presentation . It contained three time trial events , all of which were individual . There were ten stages containing high mountains , of which three had summit finishes : stage 4 , to Campitello Matese ; stage 20 , to Les Deux Alpes ; and stage 21 , to Sestriere . Another stage with a mountain @-@ top finish was stage 18 , which consisted of a climbing time trial to the summit of the Passo dello Bocco . The organizers chose to include no rest days . When compared to the previous year 's race , the race was 28 km ( 17 mi ) longer , contained one less rest day , and one more stage . The race was televised in Italy by RAI TV . 

 There were five stages that began or ended outside of Italy . Stage 12 ended in the Slovenian city Kranj and served as the start for the race 's thirteenth stage . Stage 13 ended at Lienz in Austria , and the fourteenth began there . The Giro 's mountainous stage 20 ended on the slopes of Les Deux Alpes , and the penultimate stage began on the mountain the next day . 


 = = Race overview = = 


 This edition of the Giro began with a split stage , with the morning leg consisting of a 86 km ( 53 mi ) flat route and the afternoon part being a 7 km ( 4 mi ) flat individual time trial . Italian Endrio Leoni won the morning stage by means of a sprint finish where the speeds were so high the peloton split in the final kilometer . Armand de Las Cuevas won the afternoon time trial by two seconds over Evgeni Berzin and in the process took the overall lead away from Leoni . Stage two featured an uphill finish into the city of Osimo . Moreno Argentin attacked close to the line and was able to distance himself from the rest of the peloton and win the stage , while also taking the lead of the race . Gianni Bugno failed several times to get away from the peloton before finally breaking free on the climb into Loreto Amprutino to win the third stage . 

 Stage 4 featured the race 's first summit finish , with a final climb to the top of Campitello Matese . While on the climb , Evgeni Berzin attacked and made his way up to the top in first place . Due to his efforts , Berzin gained the overall lead of the race . The next two stages , 5 and 6 , both came down to sprint finishes that were won by Endrio Leoni and Marco Saligari , respectively . The race 's seventh stage saw the Spaniard Laudelino Cubino outsprint his fellow breakaway members for the stage victory . Stage 8 was a 44 km ( 27 mi ) individual time trial that stretched from Grosseto to Follonica . The race leader Evgeni Berzin dominated the time trial as he won the stage by over a minute than the second @-@ place finisher , which also allowed him to extend his lead in the general classification . 

 The next three stages of the race were all primarily flat , had no real impact on the overall standings , and all concluded with a bunch sprint . Ján Svorada won stage nine and then stage eleven after dodging a crash that marred the stage 's finish . Djamolidine Abdoujaparov out @-@ sprinted the rest of the field to win the race 's tenth stage . The Giro 's twelfth stage featured a few categorized climbs as the race made its way into Slovenia for the stage 's finish in Kranj . Despite the climbs , the stage ended with a field sprint that was won by Andrea Ferrigato . Italian Michele Bartoli won the race 's undulating thirteenth stage by being a part of the stage 's initial breakaway and then attacking later on and soloing to the stage 's conclusion in Lienz , Austria . 

 As the Giro left Austria , the race began to enter the Dolomites during stage fourteen . The eventual stage winner Marco Pantani was in a chasing group on the final climb of the stage , the Passo di Monte Giovo . He attacked , bridged the gap to the leading group , and left them behind to claim his first professional victory of his career . The next stage saw Pantani win again after he rode away from the attack group on the last climb of the Valico di Santa Cristina and he then soloed to the finish in Stradella . Pantani 's efforts on the day moved him up to second overall in the race . The race 's sixteenth stage took a break from the mountains with the stage being primarily fled , which ultimately led to the sprint finish that was won by Italian Maximilian Sciandri . Ján Svorada won the next day 's stage after attacking from the breakaway group in the closing seconds . 

 The Giro 's eighteenth stage was a 35 km ( 22 mi ) individual time trial that stretched from Chiavari to the summit finish on the Passo del Bocco . The race leader Evgeni Berzin won the stage by twenty seconds over Miguel Indurain . Stage 19 saw the day of racing come down to a sprint finish that was won by Massimo Ghirotto . The twentieth stage saw the Giro race through the Alps and up to the summit of Les Deux Alpes for the stage finish . The lead group up Les Deux Alpes contained the likes of Evgeni Berzin , Marco Pantani , and Miguel Indurain who had attacked each other multiple times but to no avail . The trio was later joined by Vladimir Poulnikov and Nelson Rodriguez who both eventually left them to go on for the stage win . Poulkinov edged out Rodriguez to the stage win atop the mountain . The penultimate stage of the Giro saw a summit finish atop the Sestriere . The stage saw snow and chilling temperatures which led to the general classification contenders sticking together , while Pascal Richard went on to win the summit finish and solidify his lead atop the mountains classification . The Giro 's final stage came down to a sprint finish that was won by Stefano Zanini as Evgeni Berzin won the Giro d 'Italia . 

 Success in stages was limited to eleven of the competing teams , six of which achieved multiple stage victories , while four individual riders won multiple stages . The riders that won more than once were Endrio Leoni in stages 1a and 5 , Evgeni Berzin in stages 4 , 8 , and 18 , Ján Svorada in stages 9 , 11 , and 17 , and Marco Pantani in stages 14 and 15 . Jolly Componibili @-@ Cage won two stages with Leoni . Gewiss @-@ Ballan won multiple stages , with Moreno Argentin in stage 2 and three stages with Berzin . Team Polti – Vaporetto won two stages , with Gianni Bugno in stage 3 and Djamolidine Abdoujaparov in stage 10 . GB @-@ MG Maglificio won three stages , with Marco Saligari in stage 6 , Maximilian Sciandri in stage 16 , and Pascal Richard in stage 21 . Lampre – Panaria won three stages with Ján Svorada . ZG Mobili @-@ Selle Italia won two stages , with Andrea Ferrigato in stage 12 and Massimo Ghirotto in stage 19 . Carrera Jeans – Tassoni also won multiple stages , with Marco Pantani in winning two stages and Vladimir Poulnikov in stage 20 . 

 Castorama , Kelme – Avianca – Gios , Mercatone Uno – Medeghini , and Navigare – Blue Storm each won one stage apiece . Castorama rider Armand de Las Cuevas won stage 1b individual time trial , Kelme @-@ Avianca @-@ Gios 's Laudelino Cubino won stage 7 , Mercatone Uno @-@ Medeghini rider Michele Bartoli won stage 13 , and Navigare @-@ Blue Storm 's Stefano Zanini stage 22 by means of a sprint finish . 


 = = = Doping = = = 


 Despite not testing positive during the race or season , the Gewiss @-@ Ballan team has since been speculated to have executed a systematic doping program that utilized EPO throughout the 1994 season . The team achieved several victories in stage races and one @-@ day races during the year , including a sweep of the podium at La Flèche Wallonne weeks before the start of the Giro . Team doctor Michele Ferrari was banned for life from sports in 2012 by United States Anti @-@ Doping Agency for distribution of performance @-@ enhancing drugs to several of his clients . 


 = = Classification leadership = = 


 Five different jerseys were worn during the 1994 Giro d 'Italia . The leader of the general classification – calculated by adding the stage finish times of each rider , and allowing time bonuses for the first three finishers on mass @-@ start stages – wore a pink jersey . The time bonuses for the 1988 Giro were thirty seconds for first , twenty @-@ five for second , and decreasing by five seconds each place until five seconds for sixth place on the stage . This classification is the most important of the race , and its winner is considered as the winner of the Giro . 

 For the points classification , which awarded a purple ( or cyclamen ) jersey to its leader , cyclists were given points for finishing a stage in the top 15 ; additional points could also be won in intermediate sprints . The green jersey was awarded to the mountains classification leader . In this ranking , points were won by reaching the summit of a climb ahead of other cyclists . Each climb was ranked as either first , second or third category , with more points available for higher category climbs . The Cima Coppi , the race 's highest point of elevation , awarded more points than the other first category climbs . The Cima Coppi for this Giro was the Passo dello Stelvio . The first rider to cross the Stelvio was Italian Franco Vona . The white jersey was worn by the leader of young rider classification , a ranking decided the same way as the general classification , but only riders born after 1 January 1970 were eligible for it . The intergiro classification was marked by a blue jersey . The calculation for the intergiro is similar to that of the general classification , in each stage there is a midway point that the riders pass through a point and where their time is stopped . As the race goes on , their times compiled and the person with the lowest time is the leader of the intergiro classification and wears the blue jersey . Although no jersey was awarded , there was also one classification for the teams , in which the stage finish times of the best three cyclists per team were added ; the leading team was the one with the lowest total time . 

 The rows in the following table correspond to the jerseys awarded after that stage was run . 


 = = Final standings = = 



 = = = General classification = = = 




 = Riverton – Belvidere Bridge = 


 The Riverton – Belvidere Bridge is a bridge crossing the Delaware River . It connects Belvidere , New Jersey with Riverton , Pennsylvania , United States . There is no toll for crossing on either side , after tolls were abolished by the Joint Commission for the Elimination of Toll Bridges in 1929 . The bridge is 653 feet ( 199 m ) long , holding a load of 8 short tons ( 16 @,@ 000 lb ) of traffic from County Route 620 Spur ( Water Street ) in Belvidere to former Pennsylvania Route 709 on the Riverton side . The bridge was first constructed in 1836 , replacing the local ferry across the river . The board of freeholders in Warren County supported the replacement of the ferry with a bridge for safety of passengers . In 1832 , the state created the Belvidere Delaware Bridge Company , which was funded with the job of building a bridge from Riverton to Belvidere . The new covered bridge was built by Solon Chapin , a contractor from Easton , Pennsylvania . The bridge survived two large storms in 1836 and 1841 , although sustained major damage both times . In 1903 , the floods that destroyed bridges along the Delaware River Valley , including taking out the entire covered structure at Riverton and Belvidere . They rebuilt the structure in 1904 , using steel instead of wood , and the new span has remained since , with rehabilitations at certain points . 


 = = History = = 



 = = = The first bridge ( 1836 – 1903 ) = = = 


 Original reports indicate that a ferry , operated by a doctor who went by " Dr. Belvidere " , once ran along the alignment of the Riverton – Belvidere Bridge . This ferry , crossing one of the most dangerous parts of the Delaware , was reported to have opened as early as 1802 . On May 17 , 1825 , the Board of Chosen Freeholders of the ferry permitted raising the rate to cross the river via ferry . However , by 1832 , the ferry crossing was becoming dangerously busy , and required a bridge be constructed in its place . That year , the Belvidere Delaware Bridge Company was established by both the states of New Jersey and Pennsylvania . However , in constructing the bridge , the company was only allowed $ 20 @,@ 000 ( 1832 USD ) to construct the bridge . The bridge company had the designs for the bridge run by Solon Chapin , a contractor from Easton , Pennsylvania . Chapin was also the construction contractor on the nearby Riegelsville Bridge as well . 

 Although things seemed to start off smoothly , when construction began on the bridge in 1834 , things went downhill . The bridge was constructed fast , and when completed in the spring of 1836 , it was a wooden covered bridge at a length of 654 feet ( 199 m ) . Within days of opening the bridge , on April 9 , 1836 , a storm blew through the valley , destroying two of the bridges three piers and rendered the new bridge unusable . After restarting construction later , the bridge was redone using the same piers and in 1839 , was completed and opened once again . However , in January 1841 , another storm , dubbed the Bridges Freshet of January 1841 , blew through the valley , destroying most of the bridges in the area , and causing major damage to the structure from Riverton to Belvidere . However , this time , the bridge survived the storm . A local historian stated that because of the constant repairwork on the bridge itself , the bridge company had never paid one dividend of money to its stockholders . Although , after society on both sides of the bridge began to live life with it , money started flowing into the accounts of the stockholders . 

 In 1903 , the demise of wooden covered bridge would be seen , as a storm , dubbed the Pumpkin Flood of 1903 , struck in October of that year . The storm struck both communities , and the bridge in between , causing the loss of many lives , and on October 17 , the toll collector on the bridge closed off the gate and did not allow any person to cross . At 6 : 40 that evening , a crash was heard , and seconds later , the bridge was no more , after tumbling into the Delaware River below . Remnants of the bridge were swept downstream , and smashed on the side of the new Northampton Street Bridge , constructed just a few years before . After the storm cleared , the community of Belvidere put a ferry to Riverton back in almost immediately . 


 = = = Construction of the current bridge ( 1904 ) = = = 


 After the 1903 destruction of the original wooden bridge at Belvidere , plans to construct another bridge started immediately . After the storm , the substructure of the crossing had survived the strong storm . The bridge corporation set a completion date , August 17 , 1904 , which was the day that the Farmer 's Picnic was held in Belvidere . However , the contractor of which they hired to reconstruct the bridge , the New Jersey Bridge Company of Manasquan , New Jersey , believed that the new bridge would need new abutments and piers to be completed by that time , instead of using the old wooden bridge 's piers . The three piers from the wooden bridge were used , and would require them to be heightened to be above any high flood waters . On June 3 , 1904 , the bridge construction began on a barge in the river , with promises to be complete by the set date of August 17 . On August 17 , the bridge was not complete , but usable , that when the Farmer 's Picnic ( the predecessor to the Warren County Fair , occurred , people were allowed to cross a majority of the bridge . The picnic itself was a complete success , attracting over 15 @,@ 000 people , most of which walked the bridge . 

 Although the bridge was usable , work still had to be completed on the new bridge . The contractor promised the bridge corporation that the bridge would be finished by Labor Day of 1904 , or September 5 , 1904 . The bridge corporation and a local group called The Red Men scheduled festivities and the official turnover of the bridge back to the corporation . On September 5 , 1904 , the day of the transfer , the chief executive of the contracting company , W.H. Keepers arrived , he found the bridge to be unacceptable . Bolts were missing in places of the bridge and paint was not completed , both of which were in violation of the contract . The festivities for the bridge were canceled , and visitors were disappointed . The Red Men held events , but the turnout was light . A high point of the events that day was done by a man named Murphy Jones , who as a stunt , jumped a 65 @-@ foot ( 20 m ) plunge into the Delaware River from the bridge . The festive stunt got Jones a total of $ 15 ( 1904 USD ) and the event became an annual one . Work finally came to a conclusion in 1904 , and the people were beginning to cross the new structure . However , since the turnover had never occurred , the bridge was free of charge . 


 = = = The current bridge ( 1904 – present ) = = = 


 On September 5 , 1904 , the bridge finally got its transfer to the bridge corporation , and a new toll @-@ taker was hired for the new bridge . After this , life went back to normal in both communities . In October 1928 , after the charter and opening of the Delaware River Joint Toll Bridge Commission , the bridge company was asked to sell the bridge to the commission for $ 60 @,@ 000 ( 1928 USD ) , and on June 14 , 1929 , the commission abolished tolls along the bridge , making it free to cross at either end . With the bridge now under the control of the toll bridge commission , extensive repairs began on the 25 @-@ year @-@ old structure . This construction included new beams for the bridge , new flooring , and an extensive repair to one bridge pier . Although the construction had only taken four months to complete , it still caused havoc in commuting across the structure . In 1940 , the Pennsylvania approach to the bridge was designated as Pennsylvania Route 709 , a designation that would last six years , being decommissioned in 1946 . The structure would face its most recent strength test in 1955 , after the massive flooding from Hurricane Diane wreaked havoc in the area . The structure received minor damage in the flood , and the traffic was only halted for a day or two afterward . The design in the 1904 plan worked , as the structure was not at flood level . 

 Starting in October 2006 , the Toll Bridge Commission began an $ 8 @.@ 8 @.@  million rehabilitation of the structure . The rehabilitation helped extend the life of the bridge for years rather than shutting the bridge down constantly for the next 15 years for major repairs . The Commission replaced the flooring , repairing or replacing of certain steel portions of the bridge , blast @-@ cleaning and repainted the structure . 



 = Cleeve Abbey = 


 Cleeve Abbey is a medieval monastery located near the village of Washford , in Somerset , England . It is a Grade I listed building and has been scheduled as an ancient monument . 

 The abbey was founded in the late twelfth century as a house for monks of the austere Cistercian order . Over its 350 @-@ year monastic history Cleeve was undistinguished amongst the abbeys of its order , frequently ill @-@ governed and often financially troubled . The sole member of the community to achieve prominence was John Hooper , who became a bishop during the Reformation . 

 In 1536 Cleeve was closed by Henry VIII in the course of the Dissolution of the Monasteries and the abbey was converted into a country house . Subsequently , the status of the site declined and the abbey was used as farm buildings until the latter half of the nineteenth century when steps were taken to conserve the remains . In the twentieth century Cleeve was taken into state care ; the abbey is now looked after by English Heritage and is open to the public . Today Cleeve Abbey is one of the best @-@ preserved medieval Cistercian monastic sites in Britain . While the church is no longer standing , the conventual buildings are still roofed and habitable and contain many features of particular interest including the ' angel ' roof in the refectory and the wall paintings in the painted chamber . 


 = = Foundation = = 


 The abbey was founded by William de Roumare , Earl of Lincoln in a grant of 1191 , on land he had been given by king Æthelred the Unready . On 25 June 1198 a colony of 12 monks led by Abbot Ralph arrived at the site from Revesby Abbey in Lincolnshire . The official name of the abbey was Vallis Florida , ( Latin : ' Flowering Valley ' ) but throughout its history it was generally known as Cleeve after the nearby village . The initial funding for the foundation was increased by land and money from the family of William de Mohun of Dunster , 1st Earl of Somerset and the Beckerolles family . In addition to various landholdings with produced rent for the abbey they held the Right of Wreck , which meant they could claim shipwrecks washed up on the shore of their lands . 


 = = Abbey buildings = = 


 Work immediately began on constructing the abbey church , a task that took many decades . It was a conservative design , heavily influenced by the thoughts of St. Bernard and the order 's early churches in its homeland of Burgundy . It was cruciform in shape with an aisled nave of seven bays , a short , square east end , and transepts each with two side chapels . The eastern parts of the church were built first , and were likely finished in 1232 , at which point the abbey received a royal donation of oak to build choir stalls . The remainder was probably completed by mid @-@ century . 

 To the south of the church a cloister was laid out , surrounded by the domestic buildings of the house . The east range , which was completed first ( probably by around 1250 ) , held the chapter house , sacristy , the monks ' dormitory , day room , and a 19 @.@ 7 metres ( 65 ft ) long reredorter ( latrine ) . The south range was built next , it contained the kitchens , warming house and refectory which projected south beyond the main body of the building , following the usual Cistercian plan . 

 It is suggested from the heraldry used in the tiled floors of the refectory that it was finished at the end of the thirteenth century . The Encaustic tiles , which are 23 centimetres ( 9 @.@ 1 in ) square , include the arms of Henry III , Richard , 1st Earl of Cornwall and the Clare family . It is believed they were produced to celebrate the marriage of Edmund , 2nd Earl of Cornwall and Margaret de Clare in 1272 . The final part to be finished was the small west range , which was used for storage and quarters for the lay brothers . East of the core buildings , and linked to them , was a second cloister around which was the monastic infirmary . 

 The monastery , which is next to the River Washford , would have been surrounded by gardens , fishponds , orchards , barns , guesthouses , stables , a farmyard and industrial buildings . The abbey grounds were defended by a water filled moat and a gatehouse . Excavation has revealed that a large stone cross , like a market cross , stood just west of the main building . 

 Though Cleeve was by no means a wealthy house , the monks were able to make significant investment in remodelling their home so as to match the rising living standards of the later mediaeval period . In the fourteenth @-@ century elaborate polychrome tiled floors ( an expensive and high status product ) were laid throughout the abbey and in the mid @-@ fifteenth century radical works were undertaken . A wooden shelter was constructed over the tiled floor in 2016 . Abbot David Juyner ( r . 1435 – 87 ) commissioned a complete redesign of the south range of the monastery . He demolished the old refectory and built a new one parallel to the cloister on the first floor . This grand chamber with its wooden vaulted ceiling ( carved with angels ) was the equal of the hall of any contemporary secular lord . Beneath it he built several self @-@ contained apartments . These were probably used by corrodians , pensioners of the abbey . Juyner may also have been responsible for decorating the abbey with wall paintings of religious and allegorical subjects . Some of these wall paintings survive . As well as one depicting the Crucifixion , there is an arrangement of St Catherine and St Margaret on either side of , and facing , a man standing on a bridge : the bridge is over water full of fish , and the man has an angel on either side of his head , and is being attacked by a lion to his left on the bridge , and a dragon to his right . Work continued under Juyner 's successors to the eve of the Dissolution . The last building work to be completed was the remodelling of the gatehouse , performed after 1510 , though as late as 1534 the monks were engaged in a major project of renewing the cloister walks in the latest fashion . As at the neighbouring house of Forde Abbey , this was never completed , due to the dissolution of the abbey . 


 = = Monastic history = = 


 Like most of the smaller Cistercian houses , comparatively little is known about the internal history of the abbey . In its early years Cleeve received grants of land and property from local lords and the Crown to supplement its initial endowment and in the prosperous years of the thirteenth century grew steadily , reaching 26 monks in 1297 . The abbey held various local churches , including those at Cleeve , Queen Camel , Woolavington while also holding the rectory of Lundy . The abbey was also responsible for the chapel of Our Lady between Old Cleeve and what is now Blue Anchor ; however although this has since disappeared , the inn for pilgrims attending the chapel has been expanded into the present Chapel Cleeve Manor . 

 A major source of income was the export of wool . However , the fourteenth century saw a change in fortunes : the Black Death , a worsening economic climate and poor administration left the abbey ( like many others of its order ) with sharply declining numbers of monks and saddled with major debt . The internal discipline and morals of the community declined too : in 1400 – 01 it was reported to the government that the abbot of Cleeve and three other monks were leading a group of 200 bandits and attacking travellers in the region . However , things improved in the fifteenth century and despite the vast expense caused by the extravagant building projects of the last abbots , better management , access to new resources ( for instance from the profits from the right to hold markets granted by the crown ) and a general improvement in the circumstances facing the house meant that just prior to the dissolution Cleeve was enjoying an Indian Summer of comfortable stability . 


 = = Dissolution = = 


 In 1535 , the abbey 's income was only assessed at £ 155 in the Valor Ecclesiasticus , Henry VIII 's great survey of church finances . It meant the following year that it came under the terms of the first Suppression Act , Henry 's initial move in the Dissolution of the Monasteries . Abbot William Dovell and his 16 monks were forced to surrender the abbey on 6 September 1536 . There were proposals from local gentry and even some of the king 's officials for the Dissolution such as Sir Thomas Arundell that Cleeve should be granted a reprieve , as a number of others among the smaller monasteries were , however , it was not to be and the monks finally left in the spring of 1537 . Abbot William was given a pension of 40 marks per year , not large but certainly comfortable , which he was still drawing 20 years later . Most of the other monks were given pensions too . One former monk of Cleeve rose to prominence and came to a sticky end . This was John Hooper who became Bishop of Gloucester and Worcester and was killed in 1555 for his Protestant beliefs by Mary I. 


 = = Later history = = 


 Soon after Cleeve became Crown property , it was leased to Anthony Busterd for 21 years . In 1538 , the freehold of the site was granted to Robert Radcliffe , 1st Earl of Sussex . The church was demolished , save for the south wall which bounded the cloister , and the rest of the abbey converted into a mansion suitable for a gentleman . By the early seventeenth century , however , Cleeve had turned into a farm . The dormitory was now a large barn , the cloister was the farmyard and the rest of the buildings were used for agricultural purposes and a farm house . A red sandstone barn was built which abuts the south @-@ west corner of the abbey . 

 George Luttrell of Dunster Castle acquired the site in 1870 . The abbey stopped being used as a farm and extensive archaeological excavations took place . The farm house was converted into rental cottages , and the site became a tourist attraction , partly to bring traffic to the West Somerset Railway . Cleeva Clapp a local farmers daughter , who was named after the abbey , acted as a guide and described her nightly " communings " with the ghosts of the monks for a shilling a head . 

 Cleeve Abbey was passed back to the Crown in 1950 – 51 to pay Death Duties on the Luttrell estate and was managed by the Department for the Environment . Major restoration and archaeological work followed . In 1984 , English Heritage took over responsibility for Cleeve Abbey , carrying out excavations and earthwork surveys and continues to care for it today . 


 = = Present day = = 


 The church and infirmary have almost entirely vanished , but the site boasts some of the finest and best @-@ preserved monks ' living quarters still surviving in southern England . The buildings round the cloister are still roofed and habitable and many of the rooms retain their vaults . Among the most important preserved rooms are the chapter house , the refectory with its magnificent arch braced wooden vault and the painted chamber . Much of the abbey 's medieval tiled flooring remains . Other major survivals include the abbey gatehouse , which still provides entrance to the visitor , the moat and fishponds . Cleeve is open to the public . 

 The remains of the buildings have been designated by English Heritage as a grade I listed building , and it is listed as a Scheduled monument . 


 = = Cultural references = = 


 The Abbey was the original site on which ' Gracedieu ' , the setting for the Abbey Series of books by Elsie J. Oxenham , was based . Many of its features described by Oxenham , who visited Cleeve in the early years of the twentieth century , can be identified at the site today , although literary licence allowed her to add features from elsewhere or from her imagination . 

 The castle scenes in the children 's musical @-@ comedy television series Maid Marian and her Merry Men were filmed in Cleeve Abbey . 



 = Serbia – United States relations = 


 Serbian – American relations are bilateral relations between the governments of Serbia and the United States . They were first established in 1882 . From 1918 to 2006 the United States maintained relations with the Kingdom of Yugoslavia , SFR Yugoslavia , and Serbia and Montenegro , of which Serbia is considered the legal successor state . 

 At the end of the 19th century , the United States sought to take advantage of the Ottoman Empire 's withdrawal from Eastern Europe by establishing diplomatic relations with newly emerged nations , among them Serbia . Serbia and the United States were both allies during World War I. After the first World War , Serbia united with the Kingdom of Montenegro and territories previously held by Austria @-@ Hungary . This unified state became known as Yugoslavia , with which the United States had diplomatic relations up to the beginning of World War II . In the front in Yugoslavia during World War II , the US ultimately supported Serbian royalists known as Chetniks . However , Josip Broz Tito , the leader of Yugoslav Partisans during the war , ended up governing Yugoslavia after World War II , which resulted in a period of cutoff between Yugoslavia and the United States in the late 1940s . The end of World War II also resulted in the mass emigration of refugees from Yugoslavia , many of which were Serbs who ended up moving to the United States . This helped create the first major Serbian diaspora in the United States . Some of the Serbian refugees who settled in the United States after World War II were anti @-@ communist exiles who attempted to undermine Tito during the Cold War , using the United States as a venue for their anti @-@ communist aims . 

 Through the breakup of Yugoslavia , the United States engaged in both combative and economic conflict , particularly with Serbia , known at the time as Federal Republic of Yugoslavia ( successor of SFR Yugoslavia ) . The United States imposed sanctions and spearheaded a NATO bombing campaign of Yugoslavia in 1999 . Throughout the period of conflict during the 1990s , another wave of Serbian emigration ensued , and many Serbian refugees moved to the United States . In the 2000s , diplomatic relations between the United States and Yugoslavia were restored , but were changed when Montenegro seceded in 2006 , after which Serbia was the successor state to continue relations previously held by FR Yugoslavia . In 2008 Kosovo Assembly unilaterally declared independence from Serbia . 


 = = History = = 



 = = = Pre @-@ Yugoslavia = = = 


 Diplomatic relations between the then @-@ Kingdom of Serbia and the United States were established in the 19th century . In 1879 , the Serbian Consulate @-@ General in New York was opened . On February 3 , 1882 , the Serbian Parliament adopted a contract and Convention of diplomatic relations between the Kingdom of Serbia and the United States , given by King Milan Obrenović . The United States Senate adopted both documents on July 5 , 1882 without debate or amendments . On November 10 , 1882 , Eugene Schuyler became the first United States ambassador in Serbia . 


 = = = US support of Serbian monarchists during World War II = = = 


 During World War II in Yugoslavia , the United States initially supported the royal government of Yugoslavia . When the Nazis invaded Yugoslavia in the spring of 1941 , the United States decisively supported the Chetniks in the first years of the war . This support took place in the form of extensive clandestine relations between the Office of Strategic Services and Chetniks with William Donovan 's administration . Such cooperation was highlighted by complex operations such as Operation Halyard , in which several hundred American pilots were rescued by Chetniks . However , OSS support for the Chetniks was compromised by the United Kingdom 's MI6 policy of favoring the Yugoslav Partisans over the Chetniks . In 1943 , the US government 's support for the Chetniks over the Yugoslav Partisans was such that president Franklin D. Roosevelt discussed with Winston Churchill in a private conversation that he imagined that Yugoslavia 's boundaries would be completely redrawn into three separate states , with Peter Karađorđević Jr. being the monarch of an independent Serbian kingdom at the end of the war . The USAF and the British RAF began bombing Belgrade indiscriminately in April 1944 when they thought that Nazi occupation could not be removed by home @-@ grown resistance alone . The United States intelligence circles gradually conceded its influence on Yugoslav guerrilla operations to the British . At the end of the war , President Harry S. Truman dedicated a Legion of Merit to Chetnik leader Draža Mihailović , but the award wasn 't revealed publicly until 2005 . 


 = = = Cold War relations ( 1945 – 1991 ) = = = 


 After the end of World War II , the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia ( SFRJ ) was formed . One of the first diplomatic contacts made with the new communist government was the US Department of State 's request for the US Army to testify at the Mihailović trial . However , the request was shunned and early relations between the United States and the government of Josip Broz Tito became strained , as American diplomats were furious over Mihailović 's execution in 1946 . Relations degraded even further a month later , when two USAF C @-@ 47 Skytrain cargo aircraft were shot down over Yugoslavia in the space of two weeks . More USAF aircraft were shot down over Yugoslavia up to 1948 . As a result , U.S. senator Thomas Dodd staunchly opposed American financial aid to Tito 's government , even saying that " Tito had bloodied hands . " In one of Josip Broz Tito 's early visits to the United States , protesters in San Pedro drowned an effigy of him . 

 The communist governments in Europe deferred to Stalin and rejected Marshall Plan aid from the United States in 1947 . At first , Tito went along and rejected the Marshall plan . However , in 1948 Tito broke decisively with Stalin on other issues , making Yugoslavia an independent communist state . Yugoslavia then requested American aid . American leaders were internally divided , but finally agreed and began sending money on a small scale in 1949 , and on a much larger scale 1950 @-@ 53 . The American aid was not part of the Marshall Plan . 

 Yugoslavia began opening more diplomatic dialogue to western nations after the Tito – Stalin split , which assured that Yugoslavia was not to become a member of the Warsaw Pact . On January 1 , 1967 , Yugoslavia was the first communist country to open its borders to all foreign visitors and abolish visa requirements . Regular commercial air travel between the United States and Yugoslavia was introduced with Pan Am and JAT Yugoslav Airlines . Due to this , trade opportunities reopened between the United States and Yugoslavia , and American businesses began exporting to Yugoslavia . Likewise , by the 1980s Yugoslavia was even exporting many of its manufactured automobiles from Zastava Automobili 's assembly line in Kragujevac to the United States . U.S. president Jimmy Carter discussed issues regarding Palestine and Egypt with Tito and referred to him as a " great world leader " . Subsequently , the Reagan administration began targeting the Yugoslav economy in a Secret Sensitive 1984 National Security Decision Directive NSDD 133 . " U.S. Policy towards Yugoslavia . " A censored version declassified in 1990 elaborated on NSDD 54 on Eastern Europe , issued in 1982 . The latter advocated " expanded efforts to promote a ' quiet revolution ' to overthrow Communist governments and parties , " while reintegrating the countries of Eastern Europe into a market @-@ oriented economy . 


 = = = = Serbian radicals in the United States during the existence of Yugoslavia = = = = 


 For much of the socialist period , the United States was a haven for many Serbian anti @-@ communists living outside Yugoslavia . On 20 June 1979 , a Serbian nationalist named Nikola Kavaja hijacked American Airlines Flight 293 from New York City with the intention of crashing the Boeing 707 into League of Communists of Yugoslavia headquarters in Belgrade . The aircraft , however , landed in Shannon , Ireland , where Kavaja were arrested . 

 A group of six Serbian nationalists , among them Boško Radonjić , placed a home @-@ made bomb in the home of the Yugoslav consulate in Chicago in 1975 . Radonjić later became the leader of the Westies gang in New York City , where he participated in organized crime and racketeering . He eventually became one of the most feared gangsters in the New York City underworld , and developed extensive friendships with John Gotti and the Gambino family . After Sammy Gravano turned John Gotti in to the Federal Bureau of Investigation in December 1990 , Radonjić was highly suspected to have attempted to fix the trial on John Gotti 's behalf . As a result of this , Radonjić was arrested on December 1999 during a lockdown at Miami International Airport when he was tracked down by the FBI . He was arrested in the United States again in January 2000 for further investigation of the 1992 Gotti trial . Upon release in 2001 , he left the United States and moved back to Serbia where he lived until his death in 2011 . He was also an admirer and long @-@ time friend of Radovan Karadžić until the latter went into hiding in 1996 . 

 In the 1980s , Vojislav Šešelj taught political science at the University of Michigan after being expelled by the League of Communists of Yugoslavia in 1981 . In June 1989 , he traveled to the United States again to meet with Momčilo Đujić in San Marcos , California , where Đujić named him Chetnik Vojvoda ( duke in Serbian ) . He went on to form the Serbian Radical Party in 1991 and was accused by the ICTY tribunal of leading the Beli Orlovi militants in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in war @-@ state Republic of Serbian Krajina . Radovan Karadžić pursued post @-@ graduate medical studies at Columbia University from 1974 to 1975 , but did so without any specific political agenda at the time being ; he later became the war @-@ time president of the Republika Srpska during the Bosnian War and subsequently went into hiding in Serbia until his capture in 2008 for ICTY charges of war crimes and genocide . 


 = = = Deteriorating relations and war with FR Yugoslavia ( 1991 – 2000 ) = = = 


 The first form of sanctions initiated by the US against Yugoslavia took place already from 1990 as the Nickels Amendment , which was sponsored by senators Don Nickles and Bob Dole . The amendment was passed due to concerns about Albanians being arrested in Kosovo . The amendment officially came into legal effect from May 6 , 1992 ; although it applied only to $ 5 million @-@ worth of US foreign aid , it was reported as instrumental in denying SFR Yugoslavia its last application for IMF loans before its breakup and hyperinflation episode . 

 The breakup of Yugoslavia began in 1992 , the territories consisting of Serbia , Montenegro , and Kosovo composed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia . In the midst of the Yugoslav Wars , the United States as well as an overwhelming majority of states from the United Nations severed economic ties and imposed sanctions on FR Yugoslavia on May 30 , 1992 . 


 = = = = The Panić – Ćosić – Milošević triangle and the United States = = = = 


 The Yugoslav government of the newly formed FR Yugoslavia ( successor to SFR Yugoslavia ) ended up having three ideologically @-@ opposed leaders occupying executive positions . From 1992 , while Slobodan Milošević was the president of the Federal Republic of Serbia , national theorist Dobrica Ćosić was named President of FR Yugoslavia . Meanwhile , Milan Panić , a business magnate based in Newport Beach , California , accepted Milošević 's invitation to be Prime Minister . Panić was subsequently elected as Prime Minister in the 1992 Yugoslav parliamentary elections . The United States did not revoke Panić 's citizenship even though his occupation of an executive position in the Yugoslav government clearly contradicted the United States Constitution . Nevertheless , Panić would become a person of interest in US diplomatic circles , given his business and residence backgrounds . At a CSCE meeting in Helsinki in July 1992 , US Secretary of State James Baker abruptly dismissed Panić 's appeal to reduce the sanctions to Yugoslavia , even after an agreement ( between Panić , Milošević , and Dušan Mitević ) was reached by which Milošević would resign in return for sanction @-@ relief . This ended up severely damaging Panić 's unique diplomatic position internationally , as well as his standing in Yugoslavia . The Los Angeles Times published an article which described Panić as a doubtful upholder of potential American @-@ Yugoslavian peacemaking , when in fact , many years later made to be known , Panić was actually invited by Baker in the first place rather than voluntarily coming to Helsinki . 

 Panić and former US ambassador to Yugoslavia John Douglas Scanlan cooperated on a deep level in a campaign to challenge conservative politicians which echoed Baker 's disapproval of giving Yugoslavia sanctions @-@ relief in return for Milošević 's planned resignation . One of Panić 's advisors , academic Ljubiša Rakić , was dispatched to explain to Larry Eagleburger that the H.W. Bush administration was mistaken in seeing Panić as a Milošević puppet . Eagleburger replied , " Don 't worry , we are going to do our own thing " . 

 The three @-@ pronged government lasted only from May to December 1992 , as Panić and Ćosić decided to challenge Milošević in institutionally @-@ revised elections in December that same year . The December election ended up as a failure for the opposition to Milošević , as Ćosić pulled out of the campaign in the last moment due to health problems . Multiple politicians of the opposition parties criticized the US @-@ instigated fossil @-@ fuel sanctions in the midst of a cold 1992 @-@ 93 winter , sayi