r that year . 

 Under the name , Small Mercies , in May 2004 they signed with Modern Music . They released a five @-@ track EP , Off the Record , on 10 September 2004 on Sony BMG and Modern Music . Their producer was Dave Nicholas . " Pellet Gun " , a track from the EP , was issued as a single , it was co @-@ written by Blaik , O 'Brien , O 'Connor , Procopis and Spooner . It was added to the Triple J play list and In October 2007 it appeared on Power On – Rock Hits 2007 , a various artists ' compilation album . By 2005 the band 's line @-@ up was Blaik , Procopis , O 'Brien , and Jeff Reeves on bass guitar . 


 = = = Beautiful Hum = = = 


 Small Mercies contacted their next producer , Matt Wallace ( Faith No More , Maroon 5 , Train ) , after he left a message on their MySpace website : " Hey guys , love this stuff . Are you still looking for a producer ? " Wallace was at the top of their " wish list " of possible producers . The group recorded their debut album , Beautiful Hum ( May 2008 ) , over an eight @-@ week span in late 2006 in Los Angeles and San Fernando Valley , working at The Pass and Sound City Studios . The recording was mixed by Tim Palmer , who had worked with Pearl Jam and U2 . The album was released on 24 May 2008 , which reached the top 60 of the ARIA Albums Chart . 

 The first single from the album , " Innocent " , was released on 28 May 2007 , which reached the ARIA Singles Chart top 40 . The track was co @-@ written by Blaik , Procopis and Stuart . At the ARIA Music Awards of 2007 " Innocent " was nominated for Breakthrough Artist – Single . It also appeared on the ARIA End of Year Charts : Top 50 Australian Artist Singles 2007 . " Innocent " was used on the TV promo ad for United States series , Prison Break . 

 The album 's second single , " Sorry " ( November 2007 ) , made the top 60 . In November they appeared at the Bourbon Fest in Sydney , alongside Spiderbait and After the Fall . Small Mercies supported tours by headlining bands , Hinder ( October 2007 ) , Nickelback and Daughtry ( May 2008 ) . In April 2008 they travelled to the US to perform at the Tribeca Film Festival in New York , Musexpo in Los Angeles and backing Goo Goo Dolls at the Rose Bowl . Through the rest of 2008 they toured Australia to promote the album . By December 2010 Small Mercies had disbanded . In June 2014 Blaik performed as a solo artist after having been in a duo , the Associates , with Stuart McLean . 


 = = Musical styles and influences = = 


 Small Mercies and their antecedents ' music was influenced by numerous artists . In January 2001 Blaik described 7th Avenue 's connections , " bands like Live , Counting Crows and Pearl Jam so it ’ s not too heavy ... We mainly play covers at gigs but we add our own flavour as well . It ’ s a change that keeps us interested and our influence comes through in the music . " He identified his favourite albums : August and Everything After by Counting Crows , Live 's Throwing Copper , and The Joshua Tree by U2 . Blaik summarised that he " loves great storytellers " . As blaik , the band , in June 2003 their website wrote that their sound was " emotional folk pop " . 

 Blaik , the vocalist , described recording Off the Record as " five guys in a room playing rock music ... hoping that the music strikes a chord with those who listen to it . " It showed the influences of U2 , Counting Crows , Aerosmith and Pearl Jam . Jacqui Curtis of The Program felt the EP " offers listeners yet another melodic rock band with ever @-@ so @-@ catchy tunes to add to their rotation of summer jams ... [ which ] delivers five delectable rock tracks . " Curtis described how " Pellet Gun " , the lead single " couples hard @-@ hitting lyrics and memorable guitar riff ... and attacks every listener 's past loves with an attitude and vindictiveness that the heartbroken , dumped and hard @-@ done @-@ by deserve . Picture yourself burning your ex 's clothes and you 'll find the essence of ' Pellet Gun ' . " 

 In an interview on Australian Music Online Blaik listed his favourite Australian artists , and specified some of their attributes or albums : INXS and their lead singer Michael Hutchence 's ability " to create so much power and emotion " ; Powderfinger 's dedication and uniqueness , and Odyssey Number Five which had " everything that I love about Powderfinger " ; Crowded House especially Neil Finn 's song writing capabilities ; Silverchair 's Diorama which was " a journey from beginning to end " ; The Cruel Sea 's live performances ; and End of Fashion 's self @-@ titled debut album , which he opined " represent to us a place that we would want to be in the near future . " He also acknowledged AC / DC , especially their Back in Black album , as being highly influential , claiming " I don 't think I know a single musician who doesn 't have this record and this band in their record collection " , and asking " How can you not be inspired by this band ? " 

 For Beautiful Hum the band provided about 50 tracks and , according to Wallace , there was " not a clunker in the bunch . " He described Beautiful Hum as somewhat of a " best of " album , as there was so much content to choose from . Blaik told Tim Colman of The Sydney Morning Herald that " There are actually some songs on the record that are four or five years old , they 've sort of just evolved as the band 's evolved . The songs have progressed to a point where they 're really representative of where the band is now . " In November 2007 FasterLouder 's Melbjuz caught their performance at the Chapel in Melbourne , she felt they provided " Emotionally charged melodies ... ringing guitar work from Procopis and Blaik ’ s charismatic stage persona " moving from " a real rock @-@ edged buzz " with " Sorry " to " a slower , evocative track " with " Fools " . 

 American Society of Composers , Authors and Publishers ( ASCAP ) reported that critics had found that Small Mercies ' " sound has elements of Matchbox 20 , Maroon 5 , Bon Jovi and Nickelback with memorable melodies , along with the heartfelt voice of Steve Blaik and the songs he creates with writing partner , guitarist Danny Procopis . " Elisa Scarton of Mediasearch described " how distinctly international their sound is " on the album , where the " sound is fresh , Steve Blaik 's vocals are unique and appealing to the ears and the songs fulfill their rock agenda . " TheDwarf.com.au website 's MikeOwnsYourFace praised " Innocent " as " an epic rock ballad that beckons for lighters and mobile phones to be raised in salutation " but noticed that for the album 's later tracks " The band seems to run out of steam , with most of the songs ending up sounding the same as the last . " 

 In an interview in the Cairns community newspaper , Cairns Bulletin , O 'Brien described their musical forte : " Rock 's such a broad term ... we do a lot of harder stuff but we also do softer variations " and that his fellow members know " which buttons to press to make things kick in and when to give space when one needs it . " 


 = = Members = = 


 Steve Blaik – lead vocals , guitar ( 1997 – 2010 ) 

 Marty O 'Brien – drums , percussion ( 1997 – 2010 ) 

 Danny Procopis – lead guitar ( 1997 – 2010 ) 

 Simon O 'Connor – rhythm guitar ( 1999 – 2004 ) 

 Shaun Spooner – bass guitar , backing vocals ( 1999 – 2004 ) 

 Jeff Reeves – bass guitar , backing vocals ( 2005 – 2010 ) 


 = = Discography = = 



 = = = Studio albums = = = 


 Beautiful Hum ( 24 May 2008 ) AUS – No. 54 


 = = = Extended plays = = = 


 Blaik Sampler ( by Blaik ) ( December 2002 ) 

 Is This Life ? ( by Blaik ) ( November 2003 ) 

 Off the Record ( 10 September 2004 ) 


 = = = Singles = = = 


 " Pellet Gun " ( August 2004 ) 

 " Innocent " ( 28 May 2007 ) AUS – No. 38 EoY – No. 41 

 " Sorry " ( November 2007 ) AUS – No. 54 

 " Don 't You Know Who I Am ? " ( April 2008 ) 



 = Northern cardinal = 


 The northern cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North American bird in the genus Cardinalis ; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal . It can be found in southern Canada , through the eastern United States from Maine to Texas and south through Mexico . It is found in woodlands , gardens , shrublands , and swamps . 

 The northern cardinal is a mid @-@ sized songbird with a body length of 21 – 23 cm ( 8 @.@ 3 – 9 @.@ 1 in ) . It has a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on the face which is black in the male and gray in the female . The male is a vibrant red , while the female is a dull reddish olive . The northern cardinal is mainly granivorous , but also feeds on insects and fruit . The male behaves territorially , marking out his territory with song . During courtship , the male feeds seed to the female beak @-@ to @-@ beak . A clutch of three to four eggs is laid , and two to four clutches are produced each year . It was once prized as a pet , but its sale as a cage bird was banned in the United States by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 . 


 = = Taxonomy = = 


 The northern cardinal is one of three birds in the genus Cardinalis and is included in the family Cardinalidae , which is made up of passerine birds found in North and South America . 

 The northern cardinal was one of the many species originally described by Linnaeus in his 18th @-@ century work , Systema Naturae . It was initially included in the genus Loxia , which now contains only crossbills . In 1838 , it was placed in the genus Cardinalis and given the scientific name Cardinalis virginianus , which means " Virginia cardinal " . In 1918 , the scientific name was changed to Richmondena cardinalis to honor Charles Wallace Richmond , an American ornithologist . In 1983 , the scientific name was changed again to Cardinalis cardinalis and the common name was changed to " northern cardinal " , to avoid confusion with the seven other species also termed cardinals . 

 The common name , as well as the scientific name , of the northern cardinal refers to the cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church , who wear distinctive red robes and caps . The term " northern " in the common name refers to its range , as it is the northernmost cardinal species . 


 = = = Subspecies = = = 


 There are 19 subspecies : 

 C. c. cardinalis ( Linnaeus , 1758 ) 

 C. c. affinis Nelson , 1899 

 C. c. canicaudus Chapman , 1891 

 C. c. carneus ( Lesson , 1842 ) 

 C. c. clintoni ( Banks , 1963 ) 

 C. c. coccineus Ridgway , 1873 

 C. c. flammiger J.L. Peters , 1913 

 C. c. floridanus Ridgway , 1896 

 C. c. igneus S.F. Baird , 1860 

 C. c. littoralis Nelson , 1897 

 C. c. magnirostris Bangs , 1903 

 C. c. mariae Nelson , 1898 

 C. c. phillipsi Parkes , 1997 

 C. c. saturatus Ridgway , 1885 

 C. c. seftoni ( Huey , 1940 ) 

 C. c. sinaloensis Nelson , 1899 

 C. c. superbus Ridgway , 1885 

 C. c. townsendi ( van Rossem , 1932 ) 

 C. c. yucatanicus Ridgway , 1887 


 = = Description = = 


 The northern cardinal is a mid @-@ sized songbird with a body length of 21 – 23 @.@ 5 cm ( 8 @.@ 3 – 9 @.@ 3 in ) and a wingspan of 25 – 31 cm ( 9 @.@ 8 – 12 @.@ 2 in ) . The adult weighs from 33 @.@ 6 – 65 g ( 1 @.@ 19 – 2 @.@ 29 oz ) , with an average 44 @.@ 8 g ( 1 @.@ 58 oz ) . The male averages slightly larger than the female . The adult male is a brilliant crimson red color with a black face mask over the eyes , extending to the upper chest . The color becomes duller and darker on the back and wings . The female is fawn , with mostly grayish @-@ brown tones and a slight reddish tint on the wings , the crest , and the tail feathers . The face mask of the female is gray to black and is less defined than that of the male . Both sexes possess prominent raised crests and bright coral @-@ colored beaks . The beak is cone @-@ shaped and strong . Young birds , both male and female , show coloring similar to the adult female until the fall , when they molt and grow adult feathers . They are brown above and red @-@ brown below , with brick @-@ colored crest , forehead , wings , and tail . The legs and feet are a dark pink @-@ brown . The iris of the eye is brown . The plumage color of the males is produced from carotenoid pigments in the diet . Coloration is produced from both red pigments and yellow carotenoid pigments . Northern cardinal males possess the ability to metabolize carotenoid pigments to create plumage pigmentation of a color different from the ingested pigment . When fed only yellow pigments , males become a pale red color , rather than a yellow . However , there are rare " yellow morph " cardinals , where all feathers ( except for black face mask ) and beak are a moderate yellow color . During the winter months , both male and female will fluff up their down feathers in order to trap warm air next to their body and keeping cold air from reaching their body . The down feathers are small and hairlike at the base of each flight feather . The legs and feet of almost all birds are thin and lack feathers , and so are vulnerable to rapid heat loss . Therefore , many take turns tucking one leg at a time into their body to keep them warm while still using the other to stand . 


 = = Distribution and habitat = = 


 Northern cardinals are numerous across the eastern United States from Maine to Texas and in Canada in the provinces of Ontario , Quebec , New Brunswick and Nova Scotia . Its range extends west to the U.S. – Mexico border and south through Mexico to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec , northern Guatemala , and northern Belize . An allopatric population is found on the Pacific slope of Mexico from Jalisco to Oaxaca ; note that this population is not shown on the range map . The species was introduced to Bermuda in 1700 . It has also been introduced in Hawaii and southern California . Its natural habitat is woodlands , gardens , shrublands , and swamps . 


 = = Ecology = = 



 = = = Song = = = 


 The northern cardinal is a territorial song bird . The male sings in a loud , clear whistle from the top of a tree or another high location to defend his territory . He will chase off other males entering his territory . He may mistake his image on various reflective surfaces as an invading male , and will fight his reflection relentlessly . The northern cardinal learns its songs , and as a result the songs vary regionally . Mated pairs often travel together . 

 Both sexes sing clear , whistled song patterns , which are repeated several times , then varied . Some common phrases are described as cheeeer @-@ a @-@ dote , cheeer @-@ a @-@ dote @-@ dote @-@ dote , purdy , purdy , purdy ... whoit , whoit , whoit , whoit , what @-@ cheer , what @-@ cheer ... wheet , wheet , wheet , wheet and cheer , cheer , cheer , what , what , what , what The northern cardinal has a distinctive alarm call , a short metallic chip sound . This call often is given when predators approach the nest , in order to give warning to the female and nestlings . In some cases it will also utter a series of chipping notes . The frequency and volume of these notes increases as the threat becomes greater . This chipping noise is also used by a cardinal pair to locate each other , especially during dusk hours when visibility wanes . 


 = = = Predators = = = 


 Northern cardinals are preyed upon by a wide variety of predators native to North America , including falcons , all Accipiter hawks , shrikes , and several owls , including long @-@ eared owls , and eastern screech owls . Predators of chicks and eggs include milk snakes , coluber constrictors , blue jays , eastern gray squirrels , fox squirrels , eastern chipmunks , and domestic cats . 


 = = = Diet = = = 


 The diet of the northern cardinal consists mainly ( up to 90 % ) of weed seeds , grains , and fruits . It is a ground feeder and finds food while hopping on the ground through trees or shrubbery . It will also consume insects , including beetles , cicadas , grasshoppers , and snails ; it feeds its young almost exclusively on insects . Other common items include corn ( maize ) and oats , sunflower seeds , the blossoms and bark of elm trees , and drinks maple sap from holes made by sapsuckers , an example of commensalism . During the summer months it shows preference for seeds that are easily husked , but is less selective when food is scarce during winter . 


 = = = Reproduction = = = 


 Pairs mate for life , and stay together year @-@ round . Mated pairs sometimes sing together before nesting . During courtship they may also participate in a bonding behavior where the male collects food and brings it to the female , feeding her beak @-@ to @-@ beak . If the mating is successful , this mate @-@ feeding may continue throughout the period of incubation . 

 Males sometimes bring nest material to the female , who does most of the building . She crushes twigs with her beak until they are pliable , then turns in the nest to bend the twigs around her body and push them into a cup shape with her feet . The cup has four layers : coarse twigs ( and sometimes bits of trash ) covered in a leafy mat , then lined with grapevine bark and finally grasses , stems , rootlets , and pine needles . The nest typically takes three to nine days to build ; the finished product is 5 @.@ 1 – 7 @.@ 6 cm ( 2 @.@ 0 – 3 @.@ 0 in ) tall , 10 @.@ 1 cm ( 4 @.@ 0 in ) across , with an inner diameter of about 7 @.@ 6 cm ( 3 @.@ 0 in ) . Cardinals do not usually use their nests more than once . The female builds a cup nest in a well @-@ concealed spot in dense shrub or a low tree 1 – 3 m ( 3 @.@ 3 – 9 @.@ 8 ft ) off the ground . The nest is made of thin twigs , bark strips , and grasses , lined with grasses or other plant fibers . Eggs are laid one to six days following the completion of the nest . The eggs are white , with a tint of green , blue or brown , and are marked with lavender , gray , or brown blotches which are thicker around the larger end . The shell is smooth and slightly glossy . Three or four eggs are laid in each clutch . Eggs measure approximately 26 mm × 19 mm ( 1 @.@ 02 in × 0 @.@ 75 in ) in size . The female generally incubates the eggs , though , rarely , the male will incubate for brief periods of time . Incubation takes 12 to 13 days . Young fledge 10 to 11 days after hatching . Two to three , and even four , broods are raised each year . The male cares for and feeds each brood as the female incubates the next clutch of eggs . 

 The oldest wild cardinal banded by researchers lived at least 15 years and 9 months , although 28 @.@ 5 years was achieved by a captive bird . Annual survival rates for adult northern cardinals have been estimated at 60 to 65 % ; however , as with other passerine birds , the high mortality of juveniles means that the average lifespan is only about a year . 


 = = Relationship with humans = = 


 The northern cardinal is found in residential areas throughout its range . Backyard birders attract it using feeders containing seeds , particularly sunflower seeds and safflower seeds . Although some controversy surrounds bird feeding , an increase in backyard feeding by humans has generally been beneficial to this species . It is listed as a species of least concern by the IUCN Red List , with an estimated global range of 5 @,@ 800 @,@ 000 km2 ( 2 @,@ 200 @,@ 000 sq mi ) and a global population of some 100 million . Populations appear to remain stable and not threatened to reach the threshold of inclusion as a threatened species , which requires a decline of more than 30 % in ten years or three generations . It was once prized as a pet due to its bright color and distinctive song . In the United States , this species receives special legal protection under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 , which also banned their sale as cage birds . It is also protected by the Convention for the Protection of Migratory Birds in Canada . It is illegal to take , kill , or possess northern cardinals , and violation of the law is punishable by a fine of up to US $ 15 @,@ 000 and imprisonment of up to six months . 

 In the United States , the northern cardinal is the mascot of numerous athletic teams ; however , most teams portray the bird with a yellow beak and legs . In professional sports , it is the mascot of the St. Louis Cardinals of Major League Baseball 's National League and the Arizona Cardinals of the National Football League . In college athletics , it is the mascot of many schools including Ball State University , The Catholic University of America , Illinois State University , Iowa State University , Lamar University , the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences , North Idaho College , Saint John Fisher College , the State University of New York at Plattsburgh , the University of Louisville , the University of the Incarnate Word , Wesleyan University , and Wheeling Jesuit University . 


 = = State bird = = 


 The northern cardinal is the state bird of seven states , more than any other species : Illinois , Indiana , Kentucky , North Carolina , Ohio , Virginia , and West Virginia . It was also a candidate to become the state bird of Delaware , but lost to the Delaware Blue Hen . 



 = The Road Not Taken ( Fringe ) = 


 " The Road Not Taken " is the nineteenth episode of the first season of the American science fiction drama television series Fringe . It centers on the death of a young woman ( Jennifer Ferrin ) , who spontaneously combusts in the middle of a street . The Fringe team 's investigation leads them to learn more about the drug trials Olivia ( Anna Torv ) experienced as a child , as well as other revelations . 

 The episode 's story was written by Akiva Goldsman , while the teleplay was co @-@ written by executive producer Jeff Pinkner and supervising producer J.R. Orci . It was directed by Fred Toye . The title is based on the Robert Frost poem of the same name . Robert Chiappetta and Glen Whitman , frequent contributors to the series , aided in the episode 's production by " find [ ing ] a new and gruesome way to blow people up , " and rooting its explanation in science . 

 It first aired in the United States on May 5 , 2009 on the Fox network . An estimated 9 @.@ 245 million viewers watched the episode , making it the network 's fifth most watched show for the week . " The Road Not Taken " received mostly positive reviews from television critics , with many praising Olivia 's visions of the other universe and John Noble 's performance . 


 = = Plot = = 


 The Fringe Division investigates the case of a woman ( Jennifer Ferrin ) who " spontaneously combusts " in the middle of a busy New York street . The team discovers that the victim is the subject of a ZFT experiment to cultivate pyrokinesis . As they investigate , Olivia ( Anna Torv ) experiences " visions " while awake . Walter ( John Noble ) suggests she is seeing a parallel universe which has branched off from our own . Olivia and Peter ( Joshua Jackson ) visit an agoraphobic website designer ( Clint Howard ) who is apparently aware of William Bell , the drug trials , and the coming war , although his credibility comes into question when he believes himself to be a character in the plot of Star Trek . 

 Using information from her visions , Olivia tracks down the victim 's twin sister , who only moments before was kidnapped for more ZFT experimentation . Harris ( Michael Gaston ) is revealed to be responsible for the crimes , and while closing in on him , Olivia gets locked in a room with the twin sister , whose unstable pyrokinetic abilities threaten both their lives . With Olivia 's guidance , the woman focuses her energy on Harris and incinerates him . Olivia finds out that the sisters were part of the same nootropic drug trial that she was as a child . She presses Walter to reveal why he and William Bell were developing " supersoldiers , " but Walter only shares that it was for protection against some impending doom that he regrettably cannot recall . 

 Meanwhile , Walter reveals that the ZFT manuscript was written by William Bell , and that the copy of the manuscript that ZFT uses is missing a chapter dealing with ethics . He locates the original , but the Observer ( Michael Cerveris ) shows up and takes Walter away , cryptically stating : " it is time to go . " Nina Sharp ( Blair Brown ) visits Broyles ( Lance Reddick ) to discuss the Observer , and is later shot in her hotel by two masked gunmen using a suppressed pistol . 


 = = Production = = 


 The episode 's teleplay was co @-@ written by supervising producer J.R. Orci and executive producer Jeff Pinkner , based on a story by Akiva Goldsman . Producer Frederick E. O. Toye served as director . Goldsman had joined the series half way through the season by writing and directing the mythology @-@ riddled episode " Bad Dreams " , and was instrumental in convincing the showrunners to depict more Fringe mythology earlier than planned , most notably with the depiction of parallel universes . The title of " The Road Not Taken " is based on the Robert Frost poem of the same name . 

 New Media consultants and scientists Robert Chiappetta and Glen Whitman aided in the production of the episode . They had worked on the series throughout the first season , with their role ranging from directly writing episodes to advising the others on scientific concepts . Whitman later explained that they " come to us with questions : Is this possible ? Where can we go with this ? Then we go and read the very technical articles , or talk with scientists , and then translate that into the storytelling medium of our show . " For " The Road Not Taken " , he and Chiappetta were asked to again " find a new and gruesome way to blow people up , " this time by rooting it in the concept of pyrokinesis . Chiappetta explained , " They wanted to have someone spontaneously combust and burn up . So this is where we sort of leaned back into our mythology . " 

 They and the episode writers developed a storyline in which a victim 's childhood experimentation , when they were injected with something , was now " coming back to haunt them . " Whitman noted that the concept , like others in the show , was based on real scientific knowledge , " The notion is , some kind of a medical treatment that they were given allowed their brain to command vibrations that would take place . It really is true that essentially what heat is is vibrations of atoms , so if your brain can cause some kind of vibration to take place , eventually you could create enough heat to even create a flame . " Pinkner added , " And if you haven 't yet mastered pyrokinesis and the ability to excite molecules that are outside your body , well then your going to excite the ones inside your body and you 're going to blow up , sadly . " 

 For Harris ' immolation scene , first unit director Gary Rake emphasized safety , explaining that " everyone really has to think about what ’ s going on and really focus tonight . This is a quintessential moment where we can ’ t have any mistakes . " Everything in the scene was flame retardant , and a special burn unit crew was present . Actor Michael Gaston 's arm , immersed in a special gel , was actually inflamed and then extinguished after filming was cut . Then , Gaston 's stand @-@ in , stuntman Don Hewitt , Jr , was completely set on fire . Hewitt wore the same costume , a wig , a face shield , and was also covered in a flammable gel . It was Gaston 's final episode with the series . 

 Actress Jasika Nicole , who plays junior FBI agent Astrid Farnsworth , described the episode in a May 2009 interview , " It 's about spontaneously combusting . This is the episode I get to get out of the lab . I remember thinking I can 't wait to see what the set 's going to look like and how they will make it look when the spontaneous combusting takes place . And we get there and it 's just smoke on the walls , like a kitchen fire . I thought that was so funny because I thought there were going to be body parts everywhere , like a small explosion . But it 's a really good episode , which leads you into the coolest parts of the finale episode . " 


 = = Cultural references = = 


 The episode contains many cultural references , which Annalee Newitz of io9 attributed to the episode 's writers : " It was bound to happen that one day these four supernerds would get together and spawn an episode so packed with in @-@ groupy pop culture references that smacking is probably in order . " Peter and Walter reference the 1984 supernatural comedy film Ghostbusters while investigating the opening scene 's case , and later debate the origin of the term pyrokinesis , coined by author Stephen King in his 1981 novel Firestarter . Emmanuel Grayson refers to the titular character of the 1982 science fiction film Star Trek II : The Wrath of Khan , as well as Romulans and the United Federation of Planets , when describing government conspiracies to Peter and Olivia . Grayson also believes himself to be Mr. Spock . This reference is made even more appropriate by the fact that Spock 's mother was named Amanda Grayson . 


 = = Reception = = 



 = = = Ratings = = = 


 " The Road Not Taken " was first broadcast in the United States on May 5 , 2009 on the Fox network . It was watched by an estimated 9 @.@ 245 million viewers , making it the network 's fifth most watched show for the week . The episode earned a 4 @.@ 0 / 10 ratings share among adults aged 18 to 49 , meaning that it was seen by 4 @.@ 0 percent of all 18- to 49 @-@ year @-@ olds , and 10 percent of all 18- to 49 @-@ year @-@ olds watching television at the time of broadcast . Fox later aired repeats of season one episodes , including " The Road Not Taken " , that featured Twitter posts by some of Fringe 's cast and producers . 


 = = = Reviews = = = 


 The episode received generally positive reviews from television critics . TV Squad 's Jane Boursaw called the episode 's case " an interesting premise " and was pleased that " things are really , REALLY starting to come together in a big way , which is good , considering that the finale is fast approaching " . Annalee Newitz of io9 declared it to be " one of the most rewarding episodes ever for people who love the show 's mythology , " and found Olivia 's universe @-@ hopping ability to be " truly cool " . Newitz concluded that " this was a truly awesome episode with a lot of payoff for those of us who have been glued to the set every Tuesday night , looking for answers . " The website later listed " The Road Not Taken " as one of the " crucial " episodes new viewers must watch to get into the show . Television Without Pity graded the episode with a A- . 

 Noel Murray of The A.V. Club complimented the episode 's opening scene for providing a succinct synopsis of the season to new viewers who may have been newly discovering the series after watching its lead @-@ in , American Idol . Though he graded the episode with an A- , Murray did however critique its climatic scene for being " clumsily paced and staged " . Murray mainly found positive aspects with the episode , explaining , " For a show that started out being a fairly dour procedural with wacky mad @-@ scientist elements , Fringe has really worked its way into that fantasy / sci @-@ fi sweet @-@ spot , where its own forward momentum makes the ridiculous look likely and arcane mythology seem well @-@ worth the time to sort through and analyze . " Other highlights Murray found was Noble 's performance , which he considered his " finest moment in the series to date , " and Olivia 's visions of the other universe . 

 IGN 's Ramsey Isler rated the episode with a score of 9 @.@ 2 out of 10 . He thought that after a " stereotypical , over @-@ the @-@ top " characterization in past episodes , Gaston " stepped up his portrayal " as Harris and was " annoying ... in a much more believable way . " Isler found the revelation surrounding Harris to be " deliciously surprising , " and wrote that the " last twenty minutes of the episode really ramped up the suspense and action . " However , the IGN reviewer thought that while the conversation with Grayson was an " hilarious homage to Leonard Nimoy , it seemed completely superfluous in terms of the overall storyline . " Isler concluded his review on a positive note by focusing on Noble 's performance , calling it " one of the best scenes [ he ] has ever done as Walter Bishop . It was emotional , believable , and perfectly accurate for a character that has a high level of self @-@ loathing and remorse for what he 's done , and the hopeless frustration of not being able to remember exactly why he did it . " 



 = Sunda Strait campaign of January 1794 = 


 The Sunda Strait campaign of January 1794 was a series of manoeuvres and naval actions fought between warships and privateers of the French Republic and a squadron of vessels sent by the British East India Company to protect trade in the region , later augmented by Dutch warships . The campaign developed as French forces based on Île de France reacted more quickly than the British forces in the Indian Ocean to the expansion of the French Revolutionary Wars on 1 February 1793 . French privateers rapidly spread along the British trade routes in the Far East , becoming concentrated around the narrow Sunda Strait between the islands of Java and Sumatra in the Dutch East Indies . These ships were soon joined by French Navy frigates and began to inflict losses on shipping in the region . The Royal Navy forces in the Indian Ocean were deployed elsewhere and so the East India Company , the private enterprise that ruled much of British India in the 1790s and maintained their own fleet and navy , raised a squadron of armed merchant ships to patrol the Strait and drive off the raiders . 

 The arrival of this British force on 2 January 1794 was initially a success , the squadron over @-@ running and capturing two large and well @-@ armed privateers on the on 22 January , not long after the French vessels had been beaten off during an attack on the British trading post at Bencoolen . On 24 January an action against a larger French squadron was fought in the Strait itself , but ended inconclusively and the squadrons divided , the British receiving the Dutch frigate Amazone as reinforcements . The French subsequently turned southwards out of the Strait and attacked Bencoolen again on 9 February , capturing an East Indiaman in the harbour before returning to Île de France with their prize . 


 = = Background = = 


 On 1 February 1793 , the French Republic declared war on Great Britain and the Dutch Republic , extending the already existing French Revolutionary Wars . It took several months for news of the outbreak of war to reach British India , messages arriving at Calcutta from Consul George Baldwin at Alexandria on 11 June . The Royal Navy commander in the region , Commodore William Cornwallis , immediately set about demanding the surrender of the French trading posts in India . Most fell within a few days , but the major port of Pondicherry refused , and was besieged from 1 August . The siege lasted a month before the French commander capitulated under bombardment from British land and naval forces . With the French presence eliminated from India , Cornwallis was ordered to return to Europe , leaving minimal naval forces in the Indian Ocean . 

 The Indian Ocean formed a vital part of Britain 's trade links with the wider British Empire . India was controlled by the East India Company , a commercial organisation that maintained its own army and navy in Indian waters and owned a fleet of large merchant ships known as East Indiamen . These vessels ranged in size between 400 and 1500 tons burthen ( bm ) , carried up to 30 cannons and were capable in certain conditions of fighting warships , although a frigate was usually more than a match for an individual East Indiaman . These ships sailed on an annual route from China , the East Indies or India carrying trade goods such as spices , tea or silk to Britain . There the goods were sold , and replaced with general cargo including military equipment and troops for the journey back to the Indian Ocean . 

 One of the most vital parts of the Indian trade route was through the Sunda Strait between the islands of Sumatra and Java in the Dutch East Indies , through which most of the China and East Indies trade passed on its journey to the Indian Ocean . French ships , both Navy warships and commercially owned privateers , operated along the Indian trade routes from their base at the isolated island of Île de France and recognised the strategic importance of the Sunda Straits . As soon as news of war arrived at Île de France French ships spread out into the Indian Ocean in search of British and Dutch merchant shipping , gathering in significant numbers off the Sunda Straits . 

 On 27 September 1793 French cruisers achieved their first major victory when three privateers mounting more than 20 guns each attacked the East Indiaman Princess Royal , under Captain James Horncastle , off Anjier ( or Anjere or Anger ) Point in the Sunda Strait . Although Horncastle resisted , the privateers outgunned him and eventually forced him to strike . 


 = = East India Company deployment = = 


 With the Royal Navy unable to provide forces to protect trade in the East Indies , the East India Company authorities in India decided to form a squadron from their own ships to patrol the region . Three East Indiamen , Wiliam Pitt , Britannia and Nonsuch , were diverted from their regular route for the service , accompanied by the brig Nautilus and under the overall command of Commodore Charles Mitchell . On 2 January 1794 this force passed Singapore and entered the Malacca Strait , sailing eastwards in search of French raiders . As the British squadron travelled along the northern coast of Sumatra , two French privateers attacked the East India Company ’ s trading post at Bencoolen on the southern coast . The privateers were the 30 @-@ gun Vengeur under Captain Corosin and the 26 @-@ gun Résolu under Captain Jallineaux , and on 17 January they approached the mouth of Rat Island Basin close to Bencoolen where the 32 @-@ gun East Indiaman Pigot lay at anchor . Pigot , under Captain George Ballantyne , had a crew of 102 men , but was completely unprepared for action . At 08 : 15 Vengeur opened fire at 150 yards ( 137 m ) , maintaining the battle for an hour and 45 minutes before hauling off so that Résolu could continue the combat . Ballantyne defended his vessel intelligently , positioning Pigot so that the French could only approach one at a time through the narrow mouth of the bay . This allowed him to drive off each ship in turn , the privateers falling back together at 10 : 20 with damaged rigging . Pigot too had suffered , with one man killed and sufficient damage to the rigging to require several weeks of repairs . After immediate repairs had been completed , Corosin abandoned Bencoolen and retreated to the Sunda Strait in search of weaker targets . 

 Early on 22 January , Mitchell 's squadron , reinforced by the East Indiaman Houghton , stopped a merchant ship for inspection and as the ship was searched two new sails appeared to the southwest near Shown Rock in the Zuften Islands . Suspicious of the identity of the new arrivals , Mitchell sent Britannia and Nonsuch in pursuit and the ships turned away . As the East Indiamen closed with the fleeing ships , they were identified as Vengeur and Résolu . The British vessels soon outran the French and the French opened fire to which the larger British vessels responded . Captain Thomas Cheap of Britannia engaged Vengeur while Captain John Canning of Nonsuch attacked Résolu at 10 : 45 and were soon supported by William Pitt and Houghton . The overwhelming numbers and size of the British squadron soon convinced Corosin and Jallineaux that further resistance was pointless and 45 minutes after the first shots were fired both surrendered . Corosin died in the aftermath of the battle after losing a leg and another 11 French sailors were killed and 25 wounded , while British losses were one killed and two wounded on Britannia . Both raiders were subsequently supplied with crews from the East Indiaman squadron . 


 = = Battle of the Sunda Strait = = 


 On the morning of 24 January , most of Mitchell 's squadron lay at anchor off the island of Pulau Panjang in Bantam Bay on the northwestern tip of Java , with Nonsuch and the new prizes remaining in the Zuften Islands about 15 miles ( 24 km ) distant . At 06 : 00 , sails were sighted in the northern part of the Sunda Strait passing the small island of Dwars in de Weg that were rapidly identified as three frigates and a brig . These were in fact the French naval squadron from Île de France , consisting of the frigates Prudente and Cybèle , the brig Vulcain and the captured Princess Royal , now renamed Duguay @-@ Trouin , under the overall command of Captain Jean @-@ Marie Renaud . Canning attempted to communicate with the strange vessels , but by 13 : 00 it was obvious from their lack of response that these were enemy ships , and the greatly outnumbered Canning made all sail northeast with his prizes to avoid destruction . 

 During the evening heavy rain squalls reduced visibility and prevented any decisive movement by either side , but on 25 January the French squadron had rounded St. Nicholas Point at the northwestern tip of Java and was in full pursuit of Canning 's ships , which had been joined by Houghton . Resolu in particular was struggling to escape the advancing enemy , but Mitchell had realised the danger and was sailing to intercept the French . At 06 : 30 Houghton , Nonsuch and Vengeur joined with the remainder of Mitchell 's force and two hours later Renaud 's ships met the British line , Resolu just managing to reach safety in the shelter of the large East Indiamen despite being hit repeatedly in the latter stages of the chase . For an hour the two squadrons continued a general exchange of fire at long @-@ range , before Mitchell turned William Pitt , Houghton and Nonsuch towards the French at 09 : 30 , the latter two both managing to hit Cybèle with destructive broadsides . Firing continued for another 18 minutes as Renaud withdrew , eventually anchoring off the island of Pulau Baby . Neither commander was keen to continue the action , Mitchell fearing that his undermanned ships would not be able to properly engage the better armed French vessels . Casualties among the French squadron are not known , but the only loss on the British ships was on Nonsuch , which had a man killed in combat with Cybèle . 


 = = Final operations = = 


 In need of reinforcement and resupply , Mitchell drew his squadron back to Batavia and was there joined by the 36 gun Dutch frigate Amazone under Captain Kerwal and an armed merchant ship . Mitchell 's ships then cruised the Sunda Strait for another two weeks without discovering any enemy vessels , before concluding the operation on 8 February and returning to the Indian Ocean via Bencoolen . Cheap died of an illness in June , but Mitchell survived and on his return to Britain in 1796 was knighted by King George III , and presented with £ 8 @,@ 000 ( the equivalent of £ 829 @,@ 000 as of 2016 ) as reward and compensation for his diversion to the Straits . The Dutch meanwhile retained their warships for a raid on Sourabaya where two French corvettes were sheltering . Both were captured without a fight and sent back to France as cartels carrying French prisoners . 

 The French squadron under Renaud had used the retreat of Mitchell 's force to also withdraw into the Indian Ocean via Bencoolen , reaching the British trading post on 9 February . There Pigot was still undergoing repairs and was taken by surprise and captured . As the merchant ship was manoeuvred out of the bay , Renaud demanded the surrender of the small Fort Marlborough nearby and was informed that the fort was well armed and that the arrival of Mitchell 's squadron was expected at any moment . Unwilling to continue the engagement with Mitchell , Renaud withdrew immediately without assaulting the fort . The French squadron subsequently returned to Île de France where , in the Action of 22 October 1794 , they drew away two British warships that blockaded the island . 

 The Sunda Strait and surrounding waters remained an important strategic location throughout the war , although the subsequent organisation of East Indiamen into convoys and the return of a Royal Navy presence in the region assisted in limiting losses to French privateers and smaller warships . On more than one occasion convoys of East Indiamen successfully discouraged large squadrons from attempting attacks on the valuable merchant craft with their size and power . 


 = = Orders of battle = = 



 = = = East India Company = = = 



 = = = French Navy and privateers = = = 




 = Oslo Airport Station = 


 Oslo Airport Station ( Norwegian : Oslo lufthavn stasjon ) , also known as Gardermoen Station , is a railway station located in the airport terminal building of Oslo Airport , Gardermoen in Norway . Located on the Gardermoen Line , it is served by the Airport Express Trains , express trains to Trondheim and Oslo , regional trains to Lillehammer and Skien ( via Oslo ) and commuter trains to Eidsvoll and Kongsberg ( via Oslo ) . 

 The station is located 48 kilometres ( 30 mi ) from Oslo Central Station . The station is manned , and there is a single bus route , and several coach services , to and from the airport . It opened in 1998 , along with the new airport . During 2000 – 2001 , there were several derailments at the station . South of the station is a terminal for unloading freight trains carrying aviation fuel . 


 = = Location = = 


 Gardermoen is at kilometer marker 51 @.@ 85 ( 32 @.@ 22 mi ) from Oslo S , but the actual distance is only 48 @.@ 07 km ( 29 @.@ 87 mi ) . This is because the distance markers follow the slightly longer Hoved Line between Oslo and Lillestrøm . The station is built directly below the airport terminal , and access is obtained via escalators or elevators located in the airport 's arrival hall . North of the station , the tracks run in a tunnel below the terminal and runway area . The tracks on platform 2 and 3 only have connection southwards ; north of the station they are only connected to a short turning track . 

 Aviation fuel is transported to the airport by train . CargoNet hauls a daily train load of fuel from Sjursøya , with an unloading terminal just south of the passenger station . They are the only freight trains to use the Gardermoen Line . 


 = = Services = = 


 Norwegian State Railways ( NSB ) and the Airport Express Train are the only companies that operate to the station . The outer side platforms ( 1 and 4 ) serve NSB trains , while the two inner island platforms ( 2 and 3 ) serve the Airport Express Trains . 

 The station is manned , from 07 : 00 to 22 : 00 on weekdays , with reduced opening hours on weekends . The platform ( but not necessarily the trains ) are wheelchair accessible , and an escort service for disabled persons can be prebooked . Baggage trolleys are available , and a wide selection of services , including cafes , kiosks , banks and police , are available at the airport terminal , as are taxis . A single local bus route , Ruter no . 855 , also serves the airport from Kløfta , Jessheim and Maura . There are many coaches from all parts of the country that also serve the airport , as well as coach services to Oslo operated by Flybussekspressen and SAS Ground Services . 


 = = = Airport Express Train = = = 


 The Flytoget airport express train services operate six times per hour . Three run directly to Oslo Central Station ( Oslo S ) in nineteen minutes and terminate there ; the other three services make an additional stop at Lillestrøm Station , then continue beyond Oslo Central towards Drammen Station , a total of eight stops . Total travel time to Drammen is 60 minutes . In 2007 , the Airport Express Train had 5 @.@ 35 million passengers . 


 = = = Norwegian State Railways = = = 


 The Oslo Commuter Rail operated by NSB , provides one service in each direction each hour — line 450 from Kongsberg Station via Oslo Central to Eidsvoll Station . NSB also provides one regional service in each direction per hour towards Skien Station ( via Oslo Central ) and Lillehammer Station . On the Dovre Line to Trondheim Central Station , five daily express trains are also offered , including one NSB Night Train . Northbound trains use track 1 , while southbound trains use track 4 . 


 = = History = = 


 The decision to build the station , railway and airport was taken by the Parliament on 8 October 1992 . NSB Gardermobanen , a subsidiary of the Norwegian State Railways , was created to build the line and station , as well as operate the Flytoget airport express train services . Construction of the station was performed in parallel with the construction of the airport , and the station is built in the same style as the rest of the airport , in postmodernist concrete and wood . 

 The station was taken into use on 27 September 1998 , and public services commenced along with the opening of the airport on 8 October 1998 . In 2001 , as part of a reorganization of NSB Gardermobanen , the ownership of the station was transferred to the Norwegian National Rail Administration . 


 = = = Incidents = = = 


 In 2000 – 01 , the Airport Express Train experienced three derailments with empty trains at Gardermoen ; one caused by the engineer falling asleep and two by the train passing a red light . No more such accidents occurred after automatic train control was installed in 2001 . 



 = Anne Hyde = 


 Anne Hyde ( 12 March 1637 – 31 March 1671 ) was Duchess of York and of Albany as the first wife of the future King James II of England . Originally an Anglican , she converted to Catholicism soon after her marriage to James . This took place in 1660 after she became pregnant by him , but he is said to have promised to marry her the year before . The two first met in the Netherlands while Anne was living in the household of James ' sister Mary . James and Anne had eight children , but six died in early childhood . The two who survived to adulthood were Lady Mary , who succeeded her father after his deposition during the Glorious Revolution of 1688 and Lady Anne , who succeeded her brother @-@ in @-@ law and became the first monarch of Great Britain . 

 Born the daughter of a commoner – Edward Hyde ( later created Earl of Clarendon ) , Anne is best known for her marriage to James , which caused much gossip . Two months after the marriage , Anne gave birth to the couple 's first child , who had obviously been conceived out of wedlock . Until near the end of Anne 's life , some observers disapproved of James ' decision to marry Anne ; but not King Charles II , James ' brother , who wanted the marriage to take place . Another cause of disapproval was the public affection James showed towards Anne , such as kissing and leaning against each other , which was considered improper behaviour from man to wife during the seventeenth century . 

 James was a known philanderer who kept many mistresses , for which Anne often reproached him , once even complaining to the king , who sent one of James ' mistresses to the countryside where she remained until her death . Nonetheless , James fathered many illegitimate children . Years after Anne had herself converted , James avowed his Catholicism , which was a contributing factor to the Glorious Revolution . This was through Anne ’ s influence ; she had been exposed to Catholicism during visits to the Netherlands and France , and was strongly attracted thereto . She suffered from advanced breast cancer and died shortly after giving birth to her last child . 


 = = Early years ( 1637 – 60 ) = = 


 In 1629 , Edward Hyde married his first wife , Anne Ayliffe of Grittenham . Six months into the marriage Anne caught smallpox , miscarried and died . Three years later , Hyde married Frances Aylesbury . In 1637 , Anne , the couple 's eldest daughter , was born at Cranbourne Lodge in Windsor . Almost nothing except that she was named after Edward Hyde 's first wife is known of her life before 1649 , when her family fled to the Netherlands after the execution of the deposed King Charles I. They settled in Breda , where they were offered a home by Mary , Princess Royal and Princess of Orange , who had done the same with many English fugitives . The Princess appointed Anne a maid of honour , apparently against the wishes of her mother and late father . 

 Anne became a general favourite with the people she met either at The Hague or at the Princess of Orange 's country house at Teylingen . She was very attractive and stylish , and attracted many men . One of the first men to fall in love with Anne was Spencer Compton , a son of the Earl of Northampton . However , Anne quickly fell in love with Henry Jermyn , who returned her feelings . Anne dismissed Jermyn just as quickly when she met James , Duke of York , the son of the deposed king . On 24 November 1659 , two or three years after she first met him , James promised he would marry Anne . Charles , James ' brother , forced him reluctantly into this , saying that her strong character would be a positive influence on his weak @-@ willed brother . 


 = = Duchess of York ( 1660 – 71 ) = = 



 = = = Marriage = = = 


 Anne was visibly pregnant and the couple were obliged to marry . They held an official but private marriage ceremony in London on 3 September 1660 , following the restoration of the monarchy . The wedding took place between 11 at night and 2 in the morning at Worcester House – her father 's house in the Strand – and was solemnised by Dr. Joseph Crowther , James ' chaplain . The French Ambassador described Anne as having " courage , cleverness , and energy almost worthy of a King 's blood " . The couple 's first child , Charles , was born in October of that year , but died seven months later . Seven children followed : Mary ( 1662 – 1694 ) , James ( 1663 – 1667 ) , Anne ( 1665 – 1714 ) , Charles ( 1666 – 1667 ) , Edgar ( 1667 – 1671 ) , Henrietta ( 1669 – 1669 ) , and Catherine ( 1671 – 1671 ) . All of their sons and two of their daughters died in infancy . 

 Even well after their marriage , some observers disapproved of the prince 's decision , regardless of what he had promised beforehand . Samuel Pepys said of the marriage : " ... that the Duke of York 's marriage with her hath undone the kingdom , by making the Chancellor so great above reach , who otherwise would have been but an ordinary man , to have been dealt with by other people ... " After Anne 's death , the royal court tried to find a new wife for James , but this new wife was not , under any circumstances , to be of humble birth . As good a father as Pepys portrayed James to be , he strangely stated that Anne and James were unaffected by the death of their firstborn son . Pepys also described Anne as " not only the proudest woman in the world , but the most expensefull . " Even in the minds of Anne 's future son @-@ in @-@ law , William III of Orange and that of her cousin @-@ by @-@ marriage , Sophia of Hanover , the stigma of the Hydes ' lowly birth remained . 


 = = = Domestic life = = = 


 Anne experienced problems in her married life . She was not very much liked at court and James philandered with younger mistresses such as Arabella Churchill , with whom he fathered many illegitimate children , including two born during Anne 's lifetime ; thus he was called " the most unguarded ogler of his time . " Anne was not oblivious to this : Pepys wrote that she was jealous and chided James , but he also wrote that Anne and James were notorious for showing their affections publicly , kissing and leaning on each other . Pepys also wrote that when James fell in love with Lady Chesterfield , Anne complained to King Charles so insistently that Lady Chesterfield had to retreat to the countryside , where she remained until she died . 

 Anne became drawn to Catholicism , to which both she and James had been exposed during their time abroad and converted to it almost immediately after the Restoration . John Callow states that Anne " made the greatest single impact upon his thinking . " James also converted to Catholicism eight or nine years after Anne , but he still attended Anglican services until 1676 . James preferred to associate himself with Protestant people , such as John Churchill , whose wife later became a very close friend of Anne 's youngest surviving daughter Lady Anne . King Charles at the time opposed Catholicism and insisted that James ' children be raised in the Anglican faith , although he converted to Catholicism on his deathbed . James and Anne 's surviving daughters were raised as Anglicans . 


 = = = Death and legacy = = = 


 Anne was ill for 15 months after the birth of her youngest son , Edgar . She bore Henrietta in 1669 and Catherine in 1671 . Anne never recovered from Catherine 's birth . Ill with breast cancer , she died on 31 March 1671 . On her deathbed , her two brothers Henry and Laurence tried to bring an Anglican priest to give her communion , but Anne refused and she received viaticum of the Catholic Church . Two days after her death , her embalmed body was interred in the vault of Mary , Queen of Scots at Westminster Abbey 's Henry VII Chapel . In June 1671 , Anne 's only surviving son Edgar died of natural causes , followed by Catherine in December , leaving Ladies Mary and Anne as the Duke of York 's heiresses . 

 After Anne Hyde 's death , a portrait of her painted by Willem Wissing was commissioned by the future Mary II ; this used to hang above the door of the Queen 's Drawing Room of the Garden House at Windsor Castle . Two years after the death of his first wife , James married a Catholic princess , Mary of Modena , who bore James Francis Edward , James ' only son to survive to adulthood . James became king of England , Ireland , and Scotland in 1685 , but was deposed during the Glorious Revolution of 1688 . The throne was then offered by Parliament to Anne 's eldest daughter Mary and her husband William of Orange . After Mary died in 1694 and William in 1702 , Anne Hyde 's youngest daughter Anne became Queen of the three Kingdoms and , in 1707 , the first sovereign of the united Kingdom of Great Britain . 


 = = Issue = = 



 = = Style and arms = = 


 Following her marriage , Anne was styled as Her Royal Highness the Duchess of York . 


 = = Ancestry = = 



 = = Media portrayals = = 


 In the 2003 mini @-@ series , Charles II : The Power and The Passion ( or The Last King ) , Anne Hyde is portrayed by Tabitha Wady . 



 = New Waddell Dam = 


 The New Waddell Dam is an embankment dam on the Agua Fria River in Maricopa County , Arizona , 35 miles ( 56 km ) northwest of Phoenix . It serves as part of the Central Arizona Project ( CAP ) while also providing water for the Maricopa Water District . The dam creates Lake Pleasant with water from the Agua Fria and also the CAP aqueduct . In addition , it affords flood protection , hydroelectric power production and recreational opportunities . Construction on the dam began in 1985 and ended in 1994 . Its reservoir submerged the Old Waddell Dam which was completed in 1927 after decades of planning . 


 = = History = = 



 = = = Old Waddell Dam = = = 


 First referred to as the Frogs Tank Dam , the original Waddell Dam was the ambition of local businessmen who wanted to develop a project that used the Agua Fria for the irrigation of around 100 @,@ 000 acres ( 40 @,@ 000 ha ) of land . This was to be accomplished with a storage dam , diversion dam and system of canals . Their advancement of the project began in 1888 with the formation of the Agua Fria Water and Land Company . The company hired George Beardsley 's Agua Fria Construction Company , and in 1892 , construction on the project began . In 1895 , Beardsley died , and his brother William who was now president of the Water and Land Company helped continue the project . In 1896 , due to a lack of funding caused by poor nationwide economic conditions , the project was halted . The Water and Land Company soon went bankrupt , but William Beardsley would keep the project alive . Work had been primarily done on the diversion dam and canal while only the foundation of the storage dam , a gravity dam , was completed . The diversion dam , Camp Dyer Diversion Dam , was named after Edgar J. Dyer , a surveyor on the project . 

 After nearly 30 years of struggling with funding and pursuing various deals , William Beardsley hired engineer Carl Pleasant to assist with designing . Pleasant recommended hiring the engineer firm Peckham and James to draft plans for the storage dam at the Frogs Tank site . The gravity dam design was dropped , and a relatively new , cheaper and improved but controversial design was adopted : the multiple @-@ arch buttress dam . In 1925 , under a new state law , Beardsley was able to create the Beardsley @-@ Agua Fria Water Conservation District . Under the new district , funds could be raised through a bond issue . On December 20 , 1925 , the construction contract was signed , but the bonds had yet to be purchased . Five days before the contract was signed , Beardsley died . His son , Robert took direction of the project along with Pleasant . In early 1926 , Pleasant eventually sold the needed bonds to the New York firm Brandon , Gordon and Waddell . The firm sent Donald Ware Waddell to oversee construction . 

 Although the initial implementation of worker camps and site preparation had begun in 1925 , the main effort of construction began in 1926 with the diversion of the Agua Fria River . In that same year , the dam was renamed to Pleasant Dam . By February 1927 , concrete pouring for the 20 buttresses was nearing completion . The dam was complete in October 1927 . Its construction employed a maximum of 600 workers and cost over $ 3 @.@ 3 million . Prior to its inauguration , cracks were discovered in the dam 's buttresses . This led to much controversy over the new design of the dam and whether it was safe in the long @-@ term which delayed its inauguration until February 1928 . The situation was exacerbated on 12 March 1928 after the St. Francis Dam in California had a catastrophic failure . In 1929 , after a series of hearings and debates , which eventually reached the state legislature , the State Water Commissioner ordered the spillway for the dam to be lowered 24 feet ( 7 @.@ 3 m ) to prevent excess water levels and stress on the dam . It was also required that specific water levels in the reservoir be maintained . The dam was rehabilitated until 1935 , and a steel roadbed was installed atop it that same year . In the early 1960s , it was renamed the Waddell Dam . 


 = = = New Waddell Dam = = = 


 In 1973 , construction on the Central Arizona Project ( CAP ) began while many of its facilities were still being planned and approved . One integral part of the project was a storage dam on the Salt River , Orme Dam . However , in 1977 , US President Jimmy Carter recommended that Orme Dam and two other projects on the Gila River System be removed from the CAP plan because of their negative impacts and cost . While the two other projects ( Hooker and Charleston Dam ) were easily removed , Orme was not . Orme 's removal was hampered by controversy that led to the creation of the Central Arizona Water Control Study ( CAWCS ) in 1979 after Secretary of the Interior Cecil D. Andrus requested that the Bureau of Reclamation identify a replacement . In 1980 , the CAWCS recommended the removal of any storage units on the Gila River . Recent flooding within the CAWCS area and the Orme Dam problem led to an expansion of the study to include dams for flood control . 

 Three years later , the Bureau of Reclamation and the State of Arizona agreed on an alternative to Orme . This was known as Plan 6 , and it recommended four projects : a reconstruction of the Stewart Mountain Dam , a new or larger Roosevelt Dam , the Cliff Dam on the Verde River and finally , the New Waddell Dam on the Agua Fria River ( a tributary of the Gila River ) . On November 6 , 1981 , the Secretary of the Interior James G. Watt recommended Plan 6 . In April 1984 , it was approved with the exception of the Cliff Dam , which needed further study and would eventually be removed from CAP . 

 In 1985 , construction on the New Waddell Dam began with the excavation of its foundation . A diversion tunnel was constructed along with another to divert water releases from the Old Waddell Dam to the Beardsley Canal . Construction on the dam 's intakes continued through 1991 , and by the end of 1992 , a controlled breach was performed on two arches of the Old Waddell Dam , allowing its reservoir to fill freely behind the New Waddell Dam , which was already mostly inundated . By 1994 , the reservoir was filled and had nearly tripled the size of the Old Waddell Dam reservoir . In that same year , the dam 's pump @-@ generating plant ( New Waddell Pump @-@ Generating Plant ) began operation . The dam 's cost was in excess of $ 625 million . Large sediment releases from the New Waddell Dam deteriorated the Camp Dyer Diversion Dam 1 @.@ 25 miles ( 2 @.@ 01 km ) downstream . This masonry dam had to be rehabilitated by the Bureau in 1992 . 


 = = Design and operation = = 


 The New Waddell Dam is 300 ft ( 91 m ) high from the riverbed and 440 feet ( 130 m ) high from its bedrock foundation . It is a zoned earth @-@ fill type and is 4 @,@ 700 ft ( 1 @,@ 433 m ) long ; containing 16 @,@ 200 @,@ 000 cu yd ( 12 @,@ 385 @,@ 789 m3 ) of material . The dam has a crest width of 35 feet ( 11 m ) and a base width of 1 @,@ 514 feet ( 461 m ) . The reservoir created by the dam , Lake Pleasant , has a capacity of 1 @,@ 108 @,@ 600 acre feet ( 1 @.@ 3674 × 109 m3 ) at its maximum elevation above sea level : 1 @,@ 725 feet ( 526 m ) . At maximum elevation , its surface area is 12 @,@ 040 acres ( 4 @,@ 870 ha ) . The maximum conservation storage level of the reservoir is 1 @,@ 702 feet ( 519 m ) when the reservoir has a surface area of 9 @,@ 970 acres ( 4 @,@ 030 ha ) . Conservation storage for the reservoir is 812 @,@ 100 acre feet ( 1 @.@ 0017 × 109 m3 ) and minimum storage 40 @,@ 500 acre feet ( 50 @,@ 000 @,@ 000 m3 ) . The dam sits at the head of a 1 @,@ 459 square miles ( 3 @,@ 780 km2 ) catchment area . 

 Located 1 @.@ 25 miles ( 2 @.@ 01 km ) northwest of the dam and serving excess water levels are two different spillways : a 590 feet ( 180 m ) long un @-@ gated free flow with a crest elevation of 1 @,@ 706 @.@ 5 feet ( 520 @.@ 1 m ) and a 370 feet ( 110 m ) long fuse plug embankment with an elevation of 1 @,@ 711 feet ( 522 m ) . The free flow spillway has a discharge capacity of 187 @,@ 000 cubic feet per second ( 5 @,@ 300 m3 / s ) and the fuse plug 129 @,@ 000 cubic feet per second ( 3 @,@ 700 m3 / s ) . At an elevation of 1 @,@ 728 feet ( 527 m ) , both spillways would have a combined capacity of 316 @,@ 000 cubic feet per second ( 8 @,@ 900 m3 / s ) . 

 Water from the dam 's reservoir is released through its outlet works or power plant to either the Waddell Canal or into Hank Raymond Lake , which is formed just downstream of the dam by the Camp Dryer Diversion Dam . The diversion dam is a composite concrete and masonry dam with a height of 79 feet ( 24 m ) and length of 872 feet ( 266 m ) . It can store up to 590 acre feet ( 730 @,@ 000 m3 ) at an elevation of 1 @,@ 445 feet ( 440 m ) . Water from Hank Raymond Lake is diverted into the Beardsley Canal , which has a main extension 33 miles ( 53 km ) long to serve 60 square miles ( 160 km2 ) of the Maricopa Water District ( MWD ) . The Beardsley Canal also has an interconnection 4 @.@ 5 miles ( 7 @.@ 2 km ) south of the dam at 33 ° 46 ′ 48 ″ N 112 ° 16 ′ 54 ″ W with the CAP aqueduct that allows it to receive additional water from that source . Water released into the 4 @.@ 7 miles ( 7 @.@ 6 km ) long Waddell Canal first travels under the Agua Fria River via a 2 @,@ 440 feet ( 740 m ) long siphon before being returned to the surface canal where it continues south to meet the CAP aqueduct just west of Arizona State Route 303 . The capacity of the pump @-@ generating plant , Waddall Canal and siphon is 3 @,@ 000 cubic feet per second ( 85 m3 / s ) while the outlet works for the diversion dam and Beardsley Canal are 5 @,@ 600 cubic feet per second ( 160 m3 / s ) , but only 4 @,@ 300 cubic feet per second ( 120 m3 / s ) can be diverted to the canals at a time . 

 Water from the New Waddell Dam reservoir augments supply in the CAP and helps deliver 15 % more CAP water to Arizona . Water in Lake Pleasant is divided between the CAP ( 658 @,@ 300 acre feet ( 812 @,@ 000 @,@ 000 m3 ) ) and MWD ( 162 @,@ 142 acre feet ( 199 @,@ 999 @,@ 000 m3 ) ) . Water from the CAP aqueduct is also drawn into Lake Pleasant via the New Waddell Pump @-@ Generating Plant . During the winter months , when energy rates are low , additional water in the aqueduct is pumped a maximum of 192 feet ( 59 m ) up into the lake for storage . During the summer months , when energy rates are higher , water is released back down through the generators for hydroelectric power production . Sale of this electricity is being used to pay part of the dam 's cost . The pump @-@ generating plant contains four pumps and four pump @-@ generators and has an installed capacity of 45 megawatts ( 60 @,@ 000 hp ) . 


 = = Recreation = = 


 Lake Pleasant , created by the dam , offers recreational opportunities to tourists and locals . The lake is served by a marina and surrounding areas containing over 450 picnic sites , 225 camping sites and several miles of trails . Because the lake is seasonal , fluctuating up to 125 feet ( 38 m ) annually , these facilities are located for accessibility . 


 = = Environmental impact = = 


 Before the New Waddell Dam was constructed , two phases of a three @-@ phase study were carried out to determine the effects of the dam on fisheries . Completed in 2005 , the third phase of the study determined that the larger reservoir has less nutrient concentrations due to CAP water introduction and that water fluctuations have reduced fish cover , likely affecting food and spawning . Large mouth bass populations have also declined but striped bass have entered the lake , likely by eggs transferred through CAP water . Around the lake , Reclamation has taken steps to protect wildlife habitats , including those for bald eagles and Gila topminnows . 



 = Jake Long = 


 Jake Edward Long ( born May 9 , 1985 ) is an American football offensive tackle for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League ( NFL ) . He played college football at Michigan , where he was a two @-@ time consensus All @-@ American , and was drafted by the Miami Dolphins first overall in the 2008 NFL Draft . He has also played for the St. Louis Rams . 

 In high school , Long was the first player in his high school 's history to earn all @-@ state " Dream Team " ( all @-@ class state team ) honors in football from the Detroit News . He was a two @-@ time first @-@ team All @-@ Metro League player in both basketball and football , where he was honored both on offense and defense . In baseball , he was a two @-@ time second @-@ team All @-@ Metro League selection . In both basketball and football , he led his team to regular and post season success that had not been seen in many years . 

 At the University of Michigan , he redshirted for a year and then became a starter at offensive tackle for the football team in the third game of his redshirt freshman season . He earned second @-@ team All @-@ Big Ten Conference recognition and Rivals.com Freshman All @-@ American recognition . In 2006 and 2007 , he earned Big Ten Offensive Lineman of the Year and first @-@ team All @-@ Big Ten recognition . In 2006 he was an Outland and Lombardi Trophy watch lists selection and in 2007 he was a finalist for both awards . He was a consensus first @-@ team All @-@ American in 2006 , and a unanimous first @-@ team All @-@ American in 2007 . 

 After being drafted by Miami , he became an immediate starter and has started every game that the team has played since he has been a member . At the conclusion of his rookie season , he was selected to numerous All @-@ Rookie teams and was a substitute Pro Bowl selection . Long has followed up on a successful rookie season by earning Pro Bowl roster spots in 2009 , 2010 and 2011 . 


 = = Early years = = 


 Long was born in Lapeer , Michigan , the son of John and Denise Long . He attended Lapeer East High School , where he was the first player in his high school 's history to earn all @-@ state " Dream Team " ( all @-@ class state team ) honors in football . In baseball he played first base . 

 Long played basketball , baseball and football in high school . Although Long was a 2001 Flint , Michigan All @-@ Metro League lineman on both sides of the ball as a defensive end and offensive lineman , in Lapeer East 's final game of the 2001 season , he rushed for three touchdowns . As a junior that football season , he was listed at 6 feet 7 inches ( 2 @.@ 01 m ) , 270 pounds ( 122 kg ) . In Long 's first start as a varsity basketball player on December 4 , 2001 , he led all scorers although he only scored one first half point . That season he helped lead Lapeer East to an unbeaten 14 – 0 Metro League record ( 17 – 3 ) overall as they prepared for the Michigan High School Athletic Association ( MHSAA ) tournament . It was the first unbeaten Metro League season by any team since 1989 and Lapeer East 's first unbeaten season since 1980 . Long was an All @-@ Metro league first team selection , but his team lost in the 2002 Class A district semifinal on the road . By the end of the basketball season , he was listed at 6 feet 7 inches ( 2 @.@ 01 m ) , 290 pounds ( 132 kg ) . As a junior , he was a second @-@ team All @-@ Metro League baseball selection as an infielder . By the end of his junior year , he had already set the school home run record in baseball and was the fifth @-@ ranked high school football prospect in the state of Michigan ( future Michigan teammate and co @-@ captain LaMarr Woodley was number one ) . 

 After his junior year of high school , he attended the University of Michigan football camp , which ran from June 16 – 21 . At the conclusion of the camp , Michigan Wolverines football head coach Lloyd Carr offered him a scholarship as an offensive tackle . Long , who was a lifelong Michigan Wolverines fan , responded with a verbal commitment . At the time , Long weighed 305 pounds ( 138 kg ) and Michigan hoped he would bulk up to 330 pounds ( 150 kg ) by the time he arrived . Long had made official visits to Michigan , Michigan State , Notre Dame , Ohio State and Purdue . 

 In his 2002 senior season , Long helped lead Lapeer East to their first season opener win since 1995 and their first state playoff appearance since 1993 . That season , the football team set a school record by posting a nine @-@ game winning streak , which started after an October 6 , 2001 loss the prior year . The team achieved its first state playoff win in its 27 @-@ year history that season . The team 's 9 – 2 record was the best in school history , and Long was again chosen as an All @-@ Metro League selection on both offense and defense . That season he became the first Lapeer East player selected to the All @-@ state Dream Team in 2002 . Although he was All @-@ State as a lineman , Long often lined up at fullback and accumulated four career touchdowns . He finished the season as the number two football prospect in the state behind Woodley according to the Detroit News . Long led the basketball team to a second consecutive undefeated Metro League championship season , which was the first repeat league champion since 1996 and Lapeer East 's first repeat championship since 1982 . Long was again first @-@ team All @-@ Metro League , and he was selected as an honorable mention 2003 Associated Press Class A All @-@ State basketball player . Long was again a second @-@ team All @-@ Metro League selection as a first baseman . Following his senior season , Long was selected to play in the 23rd annual Michigan High School All @-@ Star Football Game on July 26 at Michigan State University . 


 = = College career = = 


 Long accepted an athletic scholarship to attend the University of Michigan , where he played for head coach Lloyd Carr 's Michigan Wolverines football team from 2003 to 2007 . As a freshman , Long was on the 2003 Michigan Wolverines football team roster , but Tony Pape and Adam Stenavich were the starting offensive tackles . He was redshirted for the year as he bulked up to 330 pounds ( 150 kg ) . Long traveled with the team to the 2004 Rose Bowl , but did not play in the game . 

 On June 16 , 2004 , following his freshman year , he was hospitalized in an intensive @-@ care unit for smoke inhalation injuries when a house rented by nine Michigan Wolverine players caught fire . Long , sleeping in his bedroom on the second floor of the house , awoke to the sound of fire alarms . He attempted to exit his room through the door , but was forced back by smoke . Long then knocked out the screen of a window and jumped out of the building . Two floors below , covered in soot , Long had escaped the fire , landing two stories below on a roommate 's parked car . Later at the hospital , Long underwent procedures that required tubes be put down his throat to suction black phlegm from his lungs . The tubes also performed Long 's breathing while he lay unconscious for the first few days . He was released from the University of Michigan Medical Center and was able to spend Father 's Day ( June 20 ) back in Lapeer . 

 As a sophomore member of the 2004 Michigan Wolverines football team , Long competed with senior Dave Schoonover and juniors Mike Kolodzieg , Rueben Riley and Mike Barishaj for the starting position vacated by the graduated Pape . Long impressed the coaches by playing through a turf toe injury . The battle came down to him and Kolodzieg . Long made his Michigan debut on September 4 , 2004 , in a 43 – 10 victory over Miami University . He made the travel squad , but he did not play against Notre Dame in the Michigan – Notre Dame rivalry game the following week at Notre Dame Stadium . Kolodzieg started the first two games , but Michigan averaged only 85 @.@ 5 yards rushing , which ranked 94th nationally among 117 Division I teams . Long became a starter in the third game on September 18 against the San Diego State Aztecs football team . Over the course of the season , he started eight games and Kolodzieg started 4 at right offensive tackle . Kolodzieg also started one game at left tackle . A week after Long was moved into the starting lineup , David Baas was moved from left offensive guard — where he had been a 2003 second team All @-@ American — to center so that Leo Henige , Jr. could enter the starting lineup . After the move , Baas was the co @-@ Rimington Trophy winner that season . The team finished the season as the 2004 Big Ten Conference Co @-@ Champions and were awarded the Big Ten Conference 's Bowl Championship Series Bowl game bid . By the time Michigan was preparing for the 2005 Rose Bowl , the team was averaging 156 @.@ 18 rushing yards per game , which ranked 56th in the nation . Long earned a second team All @-@ Big Ten Conference recognition from the coaches , while linemates guard Matt Lentz , tackle Adam Stenavich and tight end Tim Massaquoi were first @-@ team selections . Baas was Big Ten Offensive Lineman of the Year . Long also received honorable mention All @-@ Big Ten recognition from the media . Long and teammates Chad Henne and Mike Hart were named to Rivals.com 's 2004 Freshman All @-@ America first team . Long had post @-@ season shoulder surgery and missed 2005 spring practice . In fact , because of the large number of injured players , the team canceled the culminating spring practice intrasquad scrimmage game and instead held an open practice in which players participated in drills . 

 In August 2005 , Long suffered an ankle injury and was sidelined as the 2005 Michigan Wolverines football team 's season began . The injury had been caused in training camp when he was zone blocking alongside center Mark Bihl , who got tangled up with nose tackle Gabe Watson . The two fell against the outside of Long 's leg and rolled over it . The injury required surgery . Long did not return to the lineup until October 22 on the third possession against the Iowa Hawkeyes . He was the lead blocker on the game @-@ winning overtime touchdown . He started the game the subsequent week against the Northwestern Wildcats . Two weeks later , following a bye week , Long got injured during the first half against the Indiana Hoosiers , and his foot was put in a protective boot . The second foot injury was expected to end his season . He appeared in the subsequent rivalry game against the Ohio State Buckeyes , and during the first play , he opposed Bobby Carpenter and Carpenter got a broken leg . After the game , Long appeared to need immediate surgery , which would have caused him to miss the 2005 Alamo Bowl . By the time of the game on December 28 , though , he was ready to play . As the team prepared for 2006 spring practice , the left @-@ handed Long was moved from right tackle to left tackle where he would be protecting the blindside of right @-@ handed quarterbacks . 

 Long entered the season for the 2006 Michigan Wolverines football team listed on numerous preseason conference and national teams as well as watchlists for awards such as the Outland Trophy and Lombardi Trophy . He was on the preseason Outland Trophy watch list along with Levi Brown , Joe Thomas , Justin Blalock , and Herbert Taylor . Long was considered the heart of the Michigan offense , and his teammates voted the redshirt junior to be a co @-@ captain along with senior Woodley . Before the season started , Carr replaced offensive coordinator Terry Malone with Mike DeBord who had previously been offensive coordinator from 1997 – 1999 . Following the 7 – 5 2005 season which was the worst Michigan season since 1984 's 6 – 6 @-@ year , there was pressure on Carr to turn things around and he sought a lighter , faster and better conditioned team . During the offseason , Long reduced his weight from 338 pounds ( 153 kg ) to 316 pounds ( 143 kg ) to improve his agility , speed and conditioning . Under the new coordinator and with newly sculpted fitter athletes the offensive scheme was shifted to concentrate on the zone blocking system . The system was similar to the one used by the Denver Broncos when they won back @-@ to @-@ back Super Bowls and by the Atlanta Falcons to help Warrick Dunn achieve a career @-@ high in rushing yards while the team led the NFL in rushing yards in consecutive seasons . By mid @-@ November , Michigan had flourished under the new system with an 11 – 0 record , and some of the credit for the success was attributed to Long , the team captain and offensive leader . Long was recognized as a first @-@ team All @-@ Big Ten selection by both the coaches and the media and was selected as the Big Ten Offensive Lineman of the Year . Long was also part of a Michigan record @-@ setting three American Football Coaches Association ( AFCA ) All @-@ America Team selections along with Woodley and Leon Hall . Long was a consensus ( meaning at least half of the recognized lists , which are AP , AFCA , FWAA , TSN , and the WCFF selected him ) 2006 College Football All @-@ America Team first @-@ team selectiton by Associated Press ( AP ) , AFCA , Football Writers Association of America ( FWAA ) , Walter Camp Football Foundation , Sports Illustrated , Pro Football Weekly , ESPN , CBS Sports , Rivals.com , Scout.com. He was a second @-@ team All @-@ American selection by the College Football News . Long was the first offensive lineman who was a Michigan high school graduate selected to the first @-@ team by the FWAA since Paul Seymour was selected to the 1972 College Football All @-@ America Team . Long was believed to be a likely mid to high first round selection if he had chosen to declare himself eligible for the 2007 NFL Draft , but he chose to use his last year of collegiate eligibility and stay for a fifth year . His decision to stay was what convinced Hart to stay in college . Michigan opposed the 2006 USC Trojans football team in the 2007 Rose Bowl and the offensive line that had surrendered 18 quarterback sacks in the first 12 games , allowed 6 in the 32 – 18 loss to finish the season 11 – 2 . Long became a member of senior honorary society Order of Angell . 

 Long was a co @-@ captain of the 2007 Michigan Wolverines football team , and he again began the season on the Outland Trophy and Rotary Lombardi Award watch lists . He was elected to serve as tri @-@ captain along with Hart and Shawn Crable . Entering the season , the team was picked by the Big Ten media members to win the conference . The season was eagerly anticipated with returning seniors Long , Hart and Chad Henne in key roles , but the season quickly began to fall apart when the team lost to the two @-@ time defending FCS champion Appalachian State Mountaineers in the opening game . The loss put Long in a position of having to defend his coach and teammates to ESPN and the nation . In the second game , the team suffered its worst defeat since 1968 and its first consecutive home losses to start the season since 1959 . This presented a leadership challenge to Long as team captain . As Michigan won its next eight games , Long was described in the press as the team 's most valuable player and an offensive lineman who should be considered for the Heisman Trophy since he was likely to be the first overall pick in the NFL draft . In early November , Long was named one of four finalists ( along with Glenn Dorsey , Chris Long , James Laurinaitis ) for the Lombardi award that Woodley had won the year before . He was named as an Outland Trophy finalist along with Dorsey and Anthony Collins . When the win streak ended the week before his final Michigan – Ohio State game , he accepted the blame on behalf of the offensive line although the teams offensive stars were injured . At the conclusion of the Big Ten Conference schedule , he was selected again as first @-@ team All @-@ Big Ten selection by both the coaches and the media and as the Big Ten Offensive Lineman of the Year . Long , Michael Crabtree and Darren McFadden were the only unanimous offensive 2007 College Football All @-@ America Team selections by AP , AFCA , FWAA , Walter Camp , Sporting News , Sports Illustrated , Pro Football Weekly , ESPN , CBS Sports , College Football News , Rivals.com , and Scout.com. In coach Carr 's final game before retirement and Long 's final game as a Wolverine , the team won the 2008 Capital One Bowl against the Florida Gators in a game that included an attempted Jake Long tackle eligible screen pass . Long declined an invitation to participate in the 2008 Senior Bowl . From February 21 – 24 , 2008 , Long attended the NFL Combine , where he excelled . 


 = = Professional career = = 



 = = = 2008 NFL Draft = = = 


 Regarded as the top offensive tackle available in the 2008 NFL Draft , Long drew comparisons to Ryan Tucker . His 37 repetitions of 225 pounds on the bench press tied Vernon Gholston for the highest total at the 2008 NFL Combine . In addition to being one of eight offensive tackles drafted in the first round that year , Long is only the third offensive tackle ever to be taken with the first overall pick in the NFL Draft , after Hall of Famer Orlando Pace ( 1997 , a 5 @-@ time All @-@ Pro and All @-@ Decade team for the 2000s ) and Hall of Famer Ron Yary ( 1968 , an 8 @-@ time All @-@ Pro and All @-@ Decade team for the 1970s ) . The Dolphins drafted Long 's college teammate , quarterback Chad Henne , in the second round of the draft . 


 = = = Miami Dolphins = = = 


 More than two weeks before the 2008 NFL Draft , the Miami Dolphins , who owned the right to make the first selection in the draft determined that they wanted to negotiate with Long to be their pick and met with Tom Condon , Long 's sports agent . On April 22 , 2008 , in advance of the April 26 and 27 draft , Long agreed to a five @-@ year , $ 57 @.@ 75 million deal with the Miami Dolphins . The deal included $ 30 million in guaranteed money and made Long the first overall pick in the 2008 NFL Draft . This made him , as of that date , the highest paid offensive lineman in NFL history . At Dolphins minicamp on May 2 , Long was assigned number 79 and he thought he would have to negotiate with Drew Mormino for the number 77 that he had worn since high school . However , after he failed his physical exam , Mormino was released from the team , and before training camp Long was assigned number 77 . 

 Long 's ascension with the Dolphins was part of an effort to overhaul the offensive line that had allowed 42 sacks and produced the 29th @-@ rated of 32 offenses the previous season . The Dolphins hired new coach Tony Sparano and employed Bill Parcells as Executive Vice President in charge of football operations . Long was immediately slated to play left tackle . He was the only rookie expected to be a starter for the 2008 Miami Dolphins . According to the South Florida Sun @-@ Sentinel , at the end of training camp , Long was one of three rookies listed as first @-@ string on the depth chart . Jake Long was nominated for Rookie of the Week in the tenth week of the 2008 season , but lost out to Broncos WR Eddie Royal . Other players who were nominated for rookie of the week that same week were Matt Ryan , Benjarvus Green @-@ Ellis , and Joe Flacco . At the end of the season , Long was selected to nine All @-@ rookie teams by Pro Football Writers Association , Draft.com , Draftsinders.com , Draftseason.com , Sports Network , Fannation , Sporting News , Scout.com and Ourlads Scouting Service . On January 20 , 2009 , Long was selected to the 2009 Pro Bowl , replacing Jason Peters for the AFC 's squad . Long gave up just 2 @.@ 5 sacks his rookie season , compared to the 11 @.@ 5 allowed by Peters in 2008 . 

 In 2009 , Long yielded only 4 sacks and was ranked the second best offensive tackle . He was selected as a starter for the 2010 Pro Bowl . He was not selected to the first team All @-@ Pro losing out to Ryan Clady , who gave up 8 sacks , and Joe Thomas , who is ranked the best offensive tackle in the NFL . Long was selected to the second team All @-@ Pro and was named a starter for the AFC Pro Bowl . Long joins Richmond Webb as the only Dolphins offensive tackles to be named starters in the Pro Bowl and is the first Dolphins offensive lineman to be named to back @-@ to @-@ back Pro Bowls since Webb played in seven straight from 1990 to 1996 . Long did not participate in the game due to injury and was replaced on the Pro Bowl roster by D 'Brickashaw Ferguson . The following season Long was named as a starter for the 2011 Pro Bowl , while Ferguson was named as a reserve . 

 During the 2011 NFL season , Long 's 61 games started streak snapped when he suffered a back ailment . Subsequently , he was placed on injured reserve with a torn right biceps for the final week of the season . The roster move came one day after he was selected to the 2012 Pro Bowl . He was named as a Pro Bowl starter for the third consecutive season . He missed the Pro Bowl for the 2011 season . However , he was named the Dolphins ' Ed Block Courage Award recipient . In addition , he was listed as the 59th player on the NFL Top 100 Players of 2012 . 


 = = = St. Louis Rams = = = 


 During the 2013 NFL offseason , Long became a free agent . He received two contract offers : an extension from the Miami Dolphins , and a contract from the Rams . On March 17 , 2013 , Long signed a four @-@ year , $ 36 million contract with the Rams . At the October 6 , 2013 , contest against the Jacksonville Jaguars , the Rams gave the first 15 @,@ 000 fans to arrive at the game free Jake Long figurines . On October 26 , 2014 , Long sustained another torn ACL against the Kansas City Chiefs and he missed the rest of the season . He was released along with Scott Wells on the eve of free agency on March 9 , 2015 . Long was coming off of back @-@ to @-@ back seasons with torn ACLs and was about to cost the Rams $ 10 million against the salary cap . 


 = = = Atlanta Falcons = = = 


 On September 15 , 2015 , Long signed a one @-@ year , $ 1 @,@ 568 @,@ 750 contract with the Atlanta Falcons . 


 = = = Baltimore Ravens = = = 


 On July 26 , 2016 , Long agreed on a 1 @-@ year deal with the Baltimore Ravens . 


 = = Personal = = 


 After surviving the fire during his second year of college , Long got a tattoo of Saint Joseph on his right biceps . His aunt had placed a card of the saint under his pillow while he was in the hospital in intensive care . He also has a tattoo of the family name on his other arm . Long has two brothers : John and Joseph ( " Joe " ) . Joe Long attended Wayne State University . Jake Long married his college sweetheart , Jacqueline Laurian , on March 10 , 2012 . 



 = Belle ( Disney song ) = 


 " Belle " is a song written by composer Alan Menken and lyricist Howard Ashman for Walt Disney Pictures ' 30th animated feature film Beauty and the Beast ( 1991 ) . Originally recorded by American actress and singer Paige O 'Hara and American actor Richard White , " Belle " , a mid @-@ tempo French and classical music @-@ inspired song , incorporates both Broadway and musical theatre elements . The film 's first song and opening number , " Belle " appears during Beauty and the Beast as a large scale operetta @-@ style production number that introduces the film 's heroine Belle , considered a book @-@ loving nonconformist by the townspeople of the village , who has grown weary of the provincial life in which she is supposed to live , and Gaston , the film 's narcissistic villain who wishes to desire her hand in marriage despite Belle 's rejections . 

 " Belle " has been universally acclaimed by film and music critics . Musically , the song has been compared to various musical numbers from the musical films West Side Story ( 1961 ) and The Sound of Music ( 1965 ) , as well as the Broadway musicals Fiddler on the Roof and She Loves Me . At the 64th Academy Awards in 1992 , " Belle " was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song , but ultimately lost to the film 's title song . The song was similarly featured in the Broadway musical based on the film , originally performed by American actress and singer Susan Egan . 


 = = Background = = 



 = = = History and writing = = = 


 In an attempt to replicate the unprecedented success of The Little Mermaid ( 1989 ) , Walt Disney Animation Studios decided to adapt the traditional fairy tale " Beauty and the Beast " into an animated feature film . Although originally conceived as an animated film with " no songs in it whatsoever " under the direction of Richard Purdum , Disney CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg was unsatisfied with the dark and somber direction in which the film was headed , and ultimately ordered that it be re @-@ written as a " Broadway @-@ style musical with a strong heroine " instead , similar in concept to The Little Mermaid . Disney then hired lyricist Howard Ashman and composer Alan Menken to write the film 's songs and assist in the " transform [ ing of ] Beauty and the Beast into a musical " , the pair having just recently collaborated on scoring The Little Mermaid . 

 According to Menken , the " plot @-@ furthering songs " in Beauty and the Beast , including " Belle " , developed quite naturally as a result of the fact that the film was written to " almost ... exist as a stage musical " , having been " presented in the style of a traditional Broadway musical . " According to Broadway actress and singer Paige O 'Hara , who both recorded the song and provided the voice of Belle , Ashman and Menken " wanted to leave the pop music sound of Mermaid behind and go for something more Jerome Kern / Rodgers & Hammerstein " for Beauty and the Beast . The film 's songs and musical numbers , which were written to both " propel the plot " and offer " character development " , were heavily influenced by French , classical and traditional Broadway music . Additionally , Menken described " Belle " and the other Beauty and the Beast songs to The New York Times as " tangents from 18th @-@ century France " . 

 Written in a style that Menken would later admit is very " distant from contemporary pop " , the songwriters were initially skeptical of " Belle " , fearful of the song 's potential to " end their careers at Disney " if it was not well received . Described by the film 's producer Don Hahn as a " Gilbert & Sullivan operetta style " song , " Belle " reveals a lot of information " in a very short time " . Ashman and Menken initially doubted that the filmmakers would appreciate their very theatrical approach to animation . Much to their surprise , " Belle " was ultimately very well @-@ liked and " adored by the [ creative ] team " , becoming one of the film 's few songs to remain unmodified during production . 


 = = = Context and composition = = = 


 Hoping to write a song that would successfully " portray [ Belle ] in a world that is so protected and safe " , Ashman and Menken drew inspiration from a story @-@ telling style that is often reserved for traditional operettas . As Beauty and the Beast 's opening number , " Belle " , a " pivotal moment ... in the narrative " , plays a significant role in the film by introducing both the film 's heroine , Belle , after whom the song is named , and Gaston , the film 's villain . While Belle , a book @-@ loving and intelligent nonconformist who has grown frustrated with her predictable village life , longs for an adventure similar to the ones she reads about in her books , Gaston is a narcissistic hunter who seeks her hand in marriage . In roughly five minutes , the song explains both Belle and Gaston 's roles in Beauty and the Beast to the audience . The song also voices the opinions of the townsfolk and " sets up the overall theme and foreshadows what makes the town so oppressive to [ Belle ] " ; while the villagers award Belle high praise for her doubtless Beauty , they see her as odd because of her love of books and ridicule her for her non @-@ conformity . However , they appraise Gaston for his looks and masculinity . 

 According to Irving Tan of Sputnikmusic , " Belle " is an " idyllic , orchestra @-@ driven " musical number , written in the style of a traditional operetta . Commonly regarded as the film 's " I Want " song , a term originally coined and popularized by Ashman himself , " Belle " offers its protagonist an opportunity to " expresses her yearnings " . Described by Filmtracks.com as a " snare @-@ tapping song " , " Belle " is , according to sheet music originally published by Walt Disney Music Publishing , a Broadway @-@ inspired and musical theatre @-@ influenced song , performed at a moderate " pastorally " tempo of 80 beats per minute in the key of D major . Combined , O 'Hara 's soprano and White 's baritone vocal ranges span approximately two octaves , from the low note of A3 , sung by White , to the high note G5 , sung by O 'Hara . Additionally , actors Alec Murphy , Mary Ka