 autonomy . Hitler 's leadership became increasingly disconnected from reality as the war turned against Germany , with the military 's defensive strategies often hindered by his slow decision making and frequent directives to hold untenable positions . Nevertheless , he continued to believe that only his leadership could deliver victory . In the final months of the war Hitler refused to consider peace negotiations , regarding the complete destruction of Germany as preferable to surrender . The military did not challenge Hitler 's dominance of the war effort , and senior officers generally supported and enacted his decisions . 


 = = Legacy = = 


 Hitler 's suicide was likened by contemporaries to a " spell " being broken . Public support for Hitler had collapsed by the time of his death and few Germans mourned his passing ; Kershaw argues that most civilians and military personnel were too busy adjusting to the collapse of the country or fleeing from the fighting to take any interest . According to historian John Toland , National Socialism " burst like a bubble " without its leader . 

 Hitler 's actions and Nazi ideology are almost universally regarded as gravely immoral ; according to Kershaw , " Never in history has such ruination — physical and moral — been associated with the name of one man " . Hitler 's political programme brought about a world war , leaving behind a devastated and impoverished Eastern and Central Europe . Germany itself suffered wholesale destruction , characterised as Stunde Null ( Zero Hour ) . Hitler 's policies inflicted human suffering on an unprecedented scale ; according to R.J. Rummel , the Nazi regime was responsible for the democidal killing of an estimated 19 @.@ 3 million civilians and prisoners of war . In addition , 29 million soldiers and civilians died as a result of military action in the European Theatre of World War II . The number of civilians killed during the Second World War was unprecedented in the history of warfare . Historians , philosophers , and politicians often use the word " evil " to describe the Nazi regime . Many European countries have criminalised both the promotion of Nazism and Holocaust denial . 

 Historian Friedrich Meinecke described Hitler as " one of the great examples of the singular and incalculable power of personality in historical life " . English historian Hugh Trevor @-@ Roper saw him as " among the ' terrible simplifiers ' of history , the most systematic , the most historical , the most philosophical , and yet the coarsest , cruelest , least magnanimous conqueror the world has ever known " . For the historian John M. Roberts , Hitler 's defeat marked the end of a phase of European history dominated by Germany . In its place emerged the Cold War , a global confrontation between the Western Bloc , dominated by the United States and other NATO nations , and the Eastern Bloc , dominated by the Soviet Union . Historian Sebastian Haffner avers that without Hitler and the displacement of the Jews , the modern nation state of Israel would not exist . He contends that without Hitler , the de @-@ colonisation of former European spheres of influence would have been postponed . Further , Haffner claims that other than Alexander the Great , Hitler had a more significant impact than any other comparable historical figure , in that he too caused a wide range of worldwide changes in a relatively short time span . 


 = = Views on religion = = 


 Hitler was born to a practising Catholic mother and an anticlerical father ; after leaving home Hitler never again attended Mass or received the sacraments . Speer states that Hitler made harsh pronouncements against the church to his political associates and though he never officially left it , he had no attachment to it . He adds that Hitler felt that in the absence of the church the faithful would turn to mysticism , which he considered a step backwards . According to Speer , Hitler believed that either Japanese religious beliefs or Islam would have been a more suitable religion for the Germans than Christianity , with its " meekness and flabbiness " . 

 Historian John S. Conway states that Hitler was fundamentally opposed to the Christian churches . According to Bullock , Hitler did not believe in God , was anticlerical , and held Christian ethics in contempt because they contravened his preferred view of " survival of the fittest " . He favoured aspects of Protestantism that suited his own views , and adopted some elements of the Catholic Church 's hierarchical organisation , liturgy , and phraseology in his politics . 

 Hitler viewed the church as an important politically conservative influence on society , and he adopted a strategic relationship with it that " suited his immediate political purposes " . In public , Hitler often praised Christian heritage and German Christian culture , though professing a belief in an " Aryan Jesus " , one who fought against the Jews . Any pro @-@ Christian public rhetoric was at variance with his private statements , which described Christianity as " absurdity " and nonsense founded on lies . 

 According to a U.S. Office of Strategic Services report , " The Nazi Master Plan " , Hitler planned to destroy the influence of Christian churches within the Reich . His eventual goal was the total elimination of Christianity . This goal informed Hitler 's movement early on , but he saw it as inexpedient to express this extreme position publicly . According to Bullock , Hitler wanted to wait until after the war before executing this plan . 

 Speer wrote that Hitler had a negative view of Himmler 's and Alfred Rosenberg 's mystical notions and Himmler 's attempt to mythologise the SS . Hitler was more pragmatic , and his ambitions centred on more practical concerns . 


 = = Health = = 


 Researchers have variously suggested that Hitler suffered from irritable bowel syndrome , skin lesions , irregular heartbeat , coronary sclerosis , Parkinson 's disease , syphilis , giant cell arteritis with temporal arteritis , and tinnitus . In a report prepared for the Office of Strategic Services in 1943 , Walter C. Langer of Harvard University described Hitler as a " neurotic psychopath " . In his 1977 book The Psychopathic God : Adolf Hitler , historian Robert G. L. Waite proposes that Hitler suffered from borderline personality disorder . Historians Henrik Eberle and Hans @-@ Joachim Neumann consider that while Hitler suffered from a number of illnesses including Parkinson 's disease , he did not experience pathological delusions and was always fully aware of , and therefore responsible for , the decisions he was making . Theories about Hitler 's medical condition are difficult to prove , and placing too much weight on them may have the effect of attributing many of the events and consequences of Nazi Germany to the possibly impaired physical health of one individual . Kershaw feels that it is better to take a broader view of German history by examining what social forces led to the Nazi dictatorship and its policies rather than to pursue narrow explanations for the Holocaust and World War II based on only one person . 

 Hitler followed a vegetarian diet . At social events he sometimes gave graphic accounts of the slaughter of animals in an effort to make his dinner guests shun meat . Bormann had a greenhouse constructed near the Berghof ( near Berchtesgaden ) to ensure a steady supply of fresh fruit and vegetables for Hitler throughout the war . Hitler publicly avoided alcohol . He occasionally drank beer and wine in private , but gave up drinking because of weight gain in 1943 . He was a non @-@ smoker for most of his life , but smoked heavily in his youth ( 25 to 40 cigarettes a day ) . He eventually quit , calling the habit " a waste of money " . He encouraged his close associates to quit by offering a gold watch to any who were able to break the habit . Hitler began using amphetamine occasionally after 1937 and became addicted to it in late 1942 . Speer linked this use of amphetamine to Hitler 's increasingly inflexible decision making ( for example , rarely allowing military retreats ) . 

 Prescribed 90 medications during the war years , Hitler took many pills each day for chronic stomach problems and other ailments . He regularly consumed methamphetamine , barbiturates , opiates , and cocaine . He suffered ruptured eardrums as a result of the 20 July plot bomb blast in 1944 , and 200 wood splinters had to be removed from his legs . Newsreel footage of Hitler shows tremors of his hand and a shuffling walk , which began before the war and worsened towards the end of his life . Ernst @-@ Günther Schenck and several other doctors who met Hitler in the last weeks of his life also formed a diagnosis of Parkinson 's disease . 


 = = Family = = 


 Hitler created a public image as a celibate man without a domestic life , dedicated entirely to his political mission and the nation . He met his lover , Eva Braun , in 1929 , and married her in April 1945 . In September 1931 , his half @-@ niece , Geli Raubal , committed suicide with Hitler 's gun in his Munich apartment . It was rumoured among contemporaries that Geli was in a romantic relationship with him , and her death was a source of deep , lasting pain . Paula Hitler , the last living member of his immediate family , died in 1960 . 


 = = In propaganda films = = 


 Hitler exploited documentary films and newsreels to inspire a cult of personality . He was involved and appeared in a series of propaganda films throughout his political career — such as Der Sieg des Glaubens and Triumph des Willens — made by Leni Riefenstahl , regarded as a pioneer of modern filmmaking . 


 = = = List of propaganda and film appearances = = = 


 Der Sieg des Glaubens ( Victory of Faith , 1933 ) 

 Triumph des Willens ( Triumph of the Will , 1935 ) 

 Tag der Freiheit : Unsere Wehrmacht ( Day of Freedom : Our Armed Forces , 1935 ) 

 Olympia ( 1938 ) 


 = = = Online = = = 




 = Horn shark = 


 The horn shark ( Heterodontus francisci ) is a species of bullhead shark , in the family Heterodontidae . It is endemic to the coastal waters off the western coast of North America , from California to the Gulf of California . Young sharks are segregated spatially from the adults , with the former preferring deeper sandy flats and the latter preferring shallower rocky reefs or algal beds . A small species typically measuring 1 m ( 3 @.@ 3 ft ) in length , the horn shark can be recognized by a short , blunt head with ridges over its eyes , two high dorsal fins with large spines , and a brown or gray coloration with many small dark spots . 

 Slow @-@ moving , generally solitary predators , horn sharks hunt at night inside small home ranges and retreat to a favored shelter during the day . Their daily activity cycles are controlled by environmental light levels . Adult sharks prey mainly on hard @-@ shelled molluscs , echinoderms , and crustaceans , which they crush between powerful jaws and molar @-@ like teeth , while also feeding opportunistically on a wide variety of other invertebrates and small bony fishes . Juveniles prefer softer @-@ bodied prey such as polychaete worms and sea anemones . The shark extracts its prey from the substrate using suction and , if necessary , levering motions with its body . Reproduction is oviparous , with females laying up to 24 eggs from February to April . After laying , the female picks up the auger @-@ shaped egg cases and wedges them into crevices to protect them from predators . 

 Horn sharks are harmless unless harassed , and are readily maintained in captivity . They are not targeted by either commercial or recreational fisheries , though small numbers are caught as bycatch . In Mexico this species is used for food and fishmeal , and in California its spines are made into jewelry . The International Union for Conservation of Nature ( IUCN ) does not yet have enough information to determine the horn shark 's conservation status . It faces few threats off the coast of the United States . 


 = = Taxonomy = = 


 The French biologist Charles Frédéric Girard published the first scientific description of the horn shark under the name Cestracion francisci in 1855 , in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia . This species was later placed in the genus Gyropleurodus , which was eventually synonymized with the genus Heterodontus . The specific epithet francisci is a reference to San Francisco , although the range of the horn shark does not extend that far north . The type specimen from Monterey Bay has since been lost . The scientific name for this species has been given erroneously as Heterodontus californicus . 


 = = Description = = 


 Like other bullhead sharks , the horn shark has a short , wide head with a blunt snout and prominent supraorbital ridges over the eyes . The horn shark 's supraorbital ridges are low and terminate abruptly ; the space between them on top of the head is deeply concave . Each eye lacks a nictating membrane and is followed by a tiny spiracle . The nostrils are split into inflow and outflow openings by a long flap that reaches the mouth . The inflow openings are encircled by a groove , while another groove connects the outflow openings to the mouth . The mouth is small and curved , with prominent furrows at the corners . There are 19 – 26 tooth rows in the upper jaw and 18 – 29 tooth rows in the lower jaw . The teeth at the front of the jaws are small and pointed , with a central cusp flanked by a pair of lateral cusplets ; those at the sides of the jaws are much larger , elongated lengthwise , and molar @-@ like . 

 The body is cylindrical , with two high , somewhat falcate ( sickle @-@ shaped ) dorsal fins bearing stout spines at the front . The fin spines of reef @-@ dwelling horn sharks are shorter than those living in algal habitats , as their spines become worn down on rocks from the sharks ' movements . The first dorsal fin originates over the bases of the large pectoral fins , while the second dorsal fin originates slightly anterior to the free rear tips of the pelvic fins . The caudal fin has a short lower lobe and a long , broad upper lobe with a strong notch near the tip . The horn shark 's dermal denticles are small and smooth , numbering some 200 / cm2 on the back in adults . The dorsal coloration consists of various shades of gray or brown with many small dark spots , though these may be absent in older sharks ; the underside is yellowish . There is a dark patch of small spots below the eye . This species may reach a length of 1 @.@ 2 m ( 3 @.@ 9 ft ) , though most individuals do not exceed 1 m ( 3 @.@ 3 ft ) . 


 = = Distribution and habitat = = 


 The horn shark inhabits the continental shelf of the eastern Pacific Ocean , occurring off the coasts of California and Baja California from Monterey Bay southward , and in the Gulf of California . Uncommon influxes of warm water northward may bring it as far as San Francisco Bay . There are unconfirmed reports of this species off Ecuador and Peru , which may be misidentifications of other species . 

 For most of the year , horn sharks are most common at a depth of 2 – 11 m ( 6 @.@ 6 – 36 @.@ 1 ft ) . At the onset of winter , they migrate to water deeper than 30 m ( 98 ft ) . This species has been found in caves as deep as 200 m ( 660 ft ) . Juvenile horn sharks between 35 – 48 cm ( 1 @.@ 15 – 1 @.@ 57 ft ) long prefer sandy flats with low vertical relief , in water 40 – 150 m ( 130 – 490 ft ) deep . They often take advantage of large feeding pits excavated by the bat ray ( Myliobatis californica ) for shelter and food . As they mature , horn sharks shift into shallower water and their preferred habitat becomes structurally complex rocky reefs or algae beds . This strongly benthic species seldom ventures more than 2 m ( 6 @.@ 6 ft ) above the substrate . 

 The relative abundances of the horn shark and the swellshark ( Centroscyllim ventriosum ) , which shares the same habitat , are negatively correlated because horn sharks prefer temperatures warmer than 20 ° C ( 68 ° F ) while swellsharks are more cold @-@ tolerant . At Santa Catalina Island , a 20 @-@ year warming trend has resulted in an increase in the horn shark population and a decrease in the swellshark population . Horn sharks are less common than swellsharks in the northern Channel Islands , where the water is cooler . 


 = = Biology and ecology = = 


 The horn shark is a clumsy , sporadic swimmer that prefers to use its flexible , muscular pectoral fins to push itself along the bottom . It is usually solitary , though small groups have been recorded . During the day , horn sharks rest motionless , hidden inside caves or crevices , or within thick mats of algae , though they remain relatively alert and will swim away quickly if disturbed . After dusk , they roam actively above the reef in search of food . Horn sharks maintain small home ranges of around 1 @,@ 000 m2 ( 11 @,@ 000 sq ft ) , which they may remain faithful to for over a decade , returning to the same shelter every day . The shelter is usually located at the edge of the resident shark 's foraging area . The longest documented movement for an individual horn shark is 16 km ( 9 @.@ 9 mi ) . 

 Unlike most fishes , the daily activity pattern of the horn shark is under exogenous control , meaning that it is regulated by environmental factors rather than by an internal physiological cycle . Observations of captive horn sharks show that the relevant cue is light intensity : the sharks become active immediately after the lights are turned off , and stop as soon as they are turned back on . In one experiment where the sharks were kept in darkness , they remained continuously active for 11 days before slowing , possibly from fatigue . In nature , horn sharks exposed to a bright light at night may stop swimming and sink to the bottom . 

 The horn shark is preyed upon by larger fishes and the northern elephant seal ( Mirounga angustirostris ) , which consumes adults , juveniles , and egg cases . In addition , they are captured and eaten by bald eagles ( Haliaeetus leucocephalus ) at Catalina Island , and large marine snails are able to drill into their egg cases to extract the yolk . The tough skin and spines of this species confer some protection ; a Pacific angelshark ( Squatina californica ) has been filmed engulfing a juvenile horn shark , only to spit it out due to its spines . Known parasites of this species include the tapeworms Acanthobothrium bajaensis and Acanthobothrium puertecitense , the copepod Trebius heterodonti , and the nematode Echinocephalus pseudouncinatus , which spends its larval stage inside potential prey such as scallops and sea urchins . 


 = = = Feeding = = = 


 Some 95 % of the adult horn shark 's diet consists of hard @-@ shelled mollusks ( e.g. bivalves and gastropods ) , echinoderms ( e.g. sea urchins ) and crustaceans ( e.g. crabs , shrimp , and isopods ) . To crack their shells , the horn shark generates the highest known bite force relative to its size of any shark , well in excess of other measured species such as the spiny dogfish ( Squalus acanthias ) and the blacktip shark ( Carcharhinus limbatus ) . One study found the average bite force for this species in the wild to be 95 N with a maximum of 135 N , while under experimental conditions sharks could be induced to bite with over 200 N of force . Large horn sharks that feed mainly on sea urchins ( particularly the short @-@ spined purple urchin , Strongylocentrotus purpuratus ) have their teeth and fin spines stained purple . 

 Other prey items of adults include peanut worms , sea stars , cephalopods , and small bony fishes . Juveniles feed primarily on polychaete worms , sea anemones , and small clams , and have been known to " pounce " on anemones to bite off tentacles before they can be retracted . Off southern California , horn sharks are known to take advantage of seasonal opportunities . In the summer , diurnally active fishes , in particular the blacksmith ( Chromis punctipinnis ) , are especially abundant and are easily captured at night when they lie dormant . In the winter , the sharks scavenge on market squid ( Loligo opalescens ) , which die by the tens of thousands after their mass spawning event . Horn sharks hunt mainly using their sense of smell . Although electroreception certainly plays a role in locating prey , this species has only 148 ampullae of Lorenzini . This is much fewer than in most other sharks , which may have over 2 @,@ 000 . Like other sharks , the horn shark 's teeth are regularly replaced ; it takes 4 weeks for a dropped tooth to be replaced . 

 The horn shark captures prey via suction , created by expanding its buccal cavity . Its labial cartilages are modified so that the mouth can form a tube , facilitating the suction force . Once the prey is drawn into the mouth , it is secured with the sharp front teeth and then ground into pieces by the flat lateral teeth . To extract buried or affixed prey , the horn shark grips it and adopts a vertical posture with the head and pectoral fins against the substrate and the tail arched above . The shark then acts as a lever with its pectoral fins as the fulcrum : with a downward stroke of the tail , it forces its head upwards and pulls the prey loose ; this mode of feeding has not been observed in any other shark . The horn shark is also capable of protruding its upper jaw up to 15 % the length of its head ; this motion takes only 20 milliseconds to accomplish and allows the shark to use its upper jaw like a chisel to dislodge firmly attached prey . 


 = = = Life history = = = 


 Mating in the horn shark occurs in December or January , on a possibly annual reproductive cycle . The male chases the female to indicate interest ; once she is ready both sharks settle on the bottom , where the male grips the female 's pectoral fin in his teeth and inserts one of his claspers into her cloaca . After 30 – 40 minutes of copulation , the pair disengages and the female spins with her snout in the sand for another 30 minutes . From February to April , the females lay a maximum of 24 eggs two at a time once every 11 – 14 days , in water 2 – 13 m ( 6 @.@ 6 – 42 @.@ 7 ft ) deep . The egg case has two flanges spiraling around it , and thus may take the female several hours to deposit . At first the case is soft and light brown , and over a few days it hardens and darkens in color . Not including the flanges , the case measures 10 – 12 cm ( 3 @.@ 9 – 4 @.@ 7 in ) long and 3 – 4 cm ( 1 @.@ 2 – 1 @.@ 6 in ) wide ; sharks from the Channel Islands produce longer egg cases than those from mainland California , suggesting that they are separate populations . 

 One of the few sharks to exhibit parental care , female horn sharks in the wild pick up their eggs in their mouths and wedge them into crevices . However , in captivity the eggs are simply dropped on the bottom and may later be cannibalized . The eggs hatch in 6 – 10 months ; at emergence the young measure 15 – 17 cm ( 5 @.@ 9 – 6 @.@ 7 in ) long . Newly hatched sharks are provisioned with an internal yolk sac and do not have to feed until they are a month old , though they are capable of feeding and will accept food during this period . Horn sharks grow slowly and at a highly variable rate that does not correspond to their size ; this has frustrated attempts to determine their aging process . Males mature at a length of 56 – 61 cm ( 22 – 24 in ) and females at a length of at least 58 cm ( 23 in ) . Individual sharks have lived to over 12 years old in captivity , and there exists an unconfirmed report of a shark reaching 25 years of age . 


 = = Human interactions = = 


 Under normal circumstances , horn sharks are harmless to humans and can readily be approached underwater . However , they can be provoked into biting , and some pugnacious individuals have been known to chase and bite divers after being harassed . These sharks should be handled with care as their fin spines can inflict a painful wound . The horn shark adapts well to captivity and has been maintained and bred in many public aquariums across the United States . 

 The horn shark has no commercial value in California , where it is captured unintentionally in traps and trawls and by recreational anglers . The shark 's hardiness ensures that it can often be returned to the water alive . This species benefits from general restrictions placed on coastal fishing gear by the State of California . The average annual bycatch off California is 1 @,@ 800 kg ( 4 @,@ 000 lb ) , though historically it has varied from 2 @.@ 5 kg ( 5 @.@ 5 lb ) in 1976 to 9 @,@ 500 kg ( 20 @,@ 900 lb ) in 1979 . Divers sometimes kill them for sport or to make jewelry out of their fin spines , which may be the cause of a decline in the numbers of horn sharks in the most intensely dived areas of southern California . Off Mexico , this species is caught incidentally in shrimp trawls and demersal gillnets , and used for human consumption and fishmeal . The expansion of Mexican gillnet fisheries may pose a conservation concern in the future . At present , the International Union for Conservation of Nature ( IUCN ) does not have sufficient information to assess the overall conservation status of this species ; its status in United States waters is likely Least Concern . 



 = Jack Coggins = 


 Jack Banham Coggins ( July 10 , 1911 – January 30 , 2006 ) was an artist , author , and illustrator . He is known in the United States for his oil paintings , which focused predominantly on marine subjects . He is also known for his books on space travel , which were both authored and illustrated by Coggins . Besides his own works , Coggins also provided illustrations for advertisements and magazine covers and articles . 

 During World War II , he served as an artist and correspondent for YANK magazine , capturing and conveying wartime scenes from the front lines . Over the course of his career , Coggins produced more than 1 @,@ 000 paintings and taught art classes for 45 years . He retired in May 2001 and died at his home in Pennsylvania in January 2006 . 


 = = Biography = = 



 = = = Early life = = = 


 Coggins was born in London , England on July 10 , 1911 , the only child of Ethel May ( née Dobby ) and Sydney George Coggins . Sydney Coggins was Regimental Corporal Major of the First Regiment of Life Guards , the part of the Household Cavalry responsible for guarding the British Monarch ; Jack Coggins was born in his father 's barracks . During World War I , Sydney Coggins served with , and was commissioned by the regiment . After the war , he was appointed regimental Riding Master , but he was retired when the 1st and 2nd Life Guards were amalgamated into a single regiment under the Geddes Axe . A fellow officer , married to an American steel heiress , offered Sydney work as a secretary to his wife , and the Coggins family emigrated to Long Island , New York in 1923 . 


 = = = Education = = = 


 While his father served with the Life Guards Regiment in France during World War I , Coggins and his mother lived with family in Folkestone , Kent . He attended the Imperial Service College , a public school preferred by army families . After moving to New York , Coggins enrolled at Roslyn High School in Roslyn Heights where he found difficulty in adjusting to the difference between military school in England and New York city public school . After graduation from Roslyn in 1928 at age 17 , he enrolled in the New York City Grand Central School of Art and studied under Edmund Greacen , George Pearse Ennis , and Wayman Adams . In the early years , he painted advertising signs to support himself . With a grounding in fine art techniques , Coggins graduated to the Art Students League of New York , where he studied from 1933 to 1934 under noted artist Frank DuMond . 


 = = = Marriage and later life = = = 


 While a member of the faculty of Hunter College in New York , Coggins met Alma Wood , a fashion and photographic model . They married in 1948 and moved to Pike Township , Berks County , Pennsylvania , where Coggins had bought an old farm . Alma named their home " Crestfield , " which , according to Jack , meant absolutely nothing . 

 Coggins taught his wife to paint , and she had success as an artist in her own right under the name Alma Woods . The couple would hold annual joint exhibitions for many years . Alma Coggins assisted her husband in the planning , research and typing of many of his books , and he acknowledged her efforts with book dedications to her . 

 Coggins taught art classes at the Wyomissing Institute of the Arts from 1957 until 2001 , despite being handicapped by the loss of his left eye due to infection after an operation . 

 Coggins was a signature member and Master Pastelist of the Pastel Society of America , a Fellow of the American Society of Marine Artists , a member of the American Ordnance Association , the U.S. Naval Institute , and an adviser to the boards of the Philadelphia Maritime Museum and the Reading Public Museum . He died at his home in Berks County , Pennsylvania at the age of 94 and willed his body to medical science . Alma Wood @-@ Coggins died March 4 , 2007 . Jack and Alma Coggins had no children and were survived by several nieces and nephews . 


 = = Illustrator , author and artist = = 



 = = = Military illustrations of World War II = = = 


 Coggins 's interest in sailing and maritime subjects began in London when he would sail model yachts on Round Pond in Kensington Gardens . This interest developed into a lifelong passion during his teens when he sailed small craft on Hempstead Harbor , near his new home on Long Island . During the early years of World War II , Coggins took a sampling of his war illustrations to Worthen Paxton , the art director of LIFE Magazine , who commissioned Coggins to produce a drawing of an imaginary coastal invasion of England . Coggins was paid $ 250 for that work , a large sum at the time , which paid his rent for five months . Appearing on July 15 , 1940 , this was the first of many war time illustrations for LIFE . Some of Coggins 's works are in the Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection . 

 During the early 1940s , Coggins obtained more work producing war pictures for other magazines , including a series of double @-@ page spreads for the controversial newspaper PM , and illustrations for The Saturday Evening Post . Throughout the war years , most of the output of many large corporations was reserved for materiel production ; however , management were keen to promote their connection to the war effort and keep their name before the buying public until they could resume peacetime sales . Coggins received advertising commissions from such corporations including Elco , Koppers , US Steel , and Westinghouse . He also received commissions from the U.S. War Department for aircraft recognition charts , and he was intrigued to later find these charts used during his army basic training . 

 Because of the quality of his maritime illustrations , Coggins was invited by publisher Doubleday to provide artwork for a children 's book about the U.S. Navy ; the author being Fletcher Pratt , the well known military historian . Coggins was invited to participate in Pratt 's Naval Game , based on a wargame developed by Fred T. Jane involving dozens of tiny wooden ships , built on a scale of one inch to fifty feet . These were spread over the floor of Pratt 's apartment and their maneuvers were calculated via a complex mathematical formula . The result of Pratt and Coggins 's first collaboration , published in 1941 , was Fighting Ships of the U.S. Navy , a volume that described in text and illustrated in full color every class of ship in the Navy . 

 Coggins was called up for Army service , and enlisted on April 8 , 1943 . He was pulled from basic training at Fort Eustis , Virginia before he could complete it to work as an illustrator for YANK magazine . He was originally introduced to the Commanding Officer and Editor of YANK , Colonel Franklin Forsberg , by Fletcher Pratt . On May 20 , 1943 , Coggins commenced work at the head office of YANK in New York , where he worked until his departure for Britain . Jack Coggins became a naturalized citizen of the United States on August 19 , 1943 . 

 Coggins served as an artist for British YANK in London until August 2 , 1945 and was discharged from the U.S. Army on November 3 , 1945 . While in Britain , Coggins spent time on a Royal Navy convoy in the North Sea , witnessed the bombing of Saint @-@ Lô , and flew over Berlin in a Lancaster bomber . He also spent time on a U.S. PT boat patrolling the beaches and made a trip into Brittany with an armored column . Events from all of these sorties were illustrated in YANK magazine in double page spreads . During his time in Britain , Coggins wrote articles on war rockets and the German Navy which were also published in YANK . 


 = = = Science and science @-@ fiction illustrations = = = 


 During the late 1940s and early 1950s Coggins 's marine art was featured on covers of Yachting Magazine and other publications , as well as on advertising material , and his science @-@ fiction art illustrated covers for pulp science fiction magazines . These included Galaxy Science Fiction , The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction and Thrilling Wonder Stories . 

 Due to reduced interest in his pre @-@ war work , Coggins applied for a position teaching watercolor at Hunter College . He taught watercolor painting there from 1948 to 1952 . In New York , as a result of his friendship with Fletcher Pratt , Coggins was introduced to the members of the Hydra Club , where he met Judith Merril and L. Ron Hubbard . Coggins was also invited to join Pratt 's Trap Door Spiders club , where he became closely associated with L. Sprague de Camp and Isaac Asimov . The contact with such visionary thinkers complimented his exposure to the German V @-@ 2 rockets in Europe and served to strengthen his growing interest in space travel , rockets , and science fiction . In 1951 and 1952 , Coggins collaborated again with Fletcher Pratt on two classic books : Rockets , Jets , Guided Missiles & Space Ships , and By Space Ship to the Moon . The books were released amidst the great wave of interest in space travel sweeping the United States and the rest of the world in the 1950s , and they were published in several countries and translated into other languages . These books made the prospect of space exploration seem a practical possibility . National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) scientists used the books to demonstrate their ideas to Congressmen when seeking funding for the space program , and there are many NASA scientists today who retain fond memories of the influence the books had on their careers . 


 = = = Books = = = 


 Between 1941 and 1983 , Coggins wrote or illustrated 44 books on a wide range of marine , military , historical and educational themes . Among his more famous works is the 1962 authoring and illustration of Arms and Equipment of the Civil War . Dale E. Biever , registrar at the Civil War Library and Museum in Philadelphia , described the work as " not about generals or battles but about the things one should know before delving into those areas ... a welcome addition to any Civil War library . " It was republished several times , most recently in 2004 . In 1966 , Coggins wrote and illustrated The Horseman 's Bible , which sold over 500 @,@ 000 copies with a revised edition published in 1984 . In this book Coggins acknowledges his father " whose twenty five years in the cavalry and lifetime interest in horses made his advice invaluable . " Coggins 's last book was Marine Painter 's Guide , which was first published in 1983 . After the book was published , he decided to stop writing to concentrate more on painting . A new edition of Marine Painter 's Guide was published in 2005 by Dover Publications , the publisher of new editions for several of his books . 


 = = = Other paintings and illustrations = = = 


 Coggins relies on a realistic style that is executed in oils , for which he had a preference . However , he also painted works in water colors and other media . The majority of his paintings have a maritime theme , about which he wrote " It seems strange that with so much of the globe covered by water , so few artists know how to paint it . " His stated preference in art styles was " a direct splashy type of realistic painting " and he admired the New Hope school of Redfield and Garber , with " no liking for ' modern art ' " . A catalog listing over 1000 works has been posthumously compiled by his relatives . A retrospective exhibition and sale of artworks found in Coggins 's home after his death was held at the Wyomissing Institute of the Arts in late 2006 . This consisted of about 300 previously unseen oils , watercolors , and other printed materials . An annual " Jack Coggins award " to be given to a deserving local artist was financed from part of the proceeds from the sale of these works . 

 As of 2001 his paintings are owned by the Philadelphia Maritime Museum , the National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution , the U.S. Navy , and the United States Coast Guard , among many other institutions , corporations , and private collectors . His original manuscripts and illustrations are part of The University of Southern Mississippi 's Permanent Collection of outstanding authors and artists . 


 = = = Recognition = = = 


 Coggins 's work has been accepted for show by the American Watercolor Society , the Salmagundi Club , the American Artist Professional League , and the Pastel Society of America . Coggins received a number of awards and accolades during his career , including the American Revolution Round Table Award in 1969 , the Daniel Boone National Foundation 's Americanism Award in 1985 , the Mystic Maritime Gallery 's Purchase Award in 1989 , the International Maritime Exhibition 's Rudolph Shaeffer Award from 1987 to 1990 , and Berks Art Council 's Pagoda Award in 1995 . In 2000 , he was inducted to the International Association of Astronomical Artists Hall of Fame as a Living Legend and celebrated master of the genre of Space Art . 



 = 2011 Minnesota state government shutdown = 


 The 2011 Minnesota state government shutdown was a government shutdown affecting the U.S. state of Minnesota . The shutdown was the result of a fiscal dispute between the Democratic – Farmer – Labor Party ( DFL ) Governor Mark Dayton and the Republican @-@ majority Minnesota Legislature , that was not resolved by the constitutional deadline on June 30 . The Republican caucuses and their leaders demanded bigger spending cuts , and for the budget shortfall to be met without tax increases , while Dayton demanded some tax increases . The shutdown started at midnight on July 1 , and ended after a budget bill was passed and signed on July 20 . 

 During the shutdown all less important parts of the state government , that were not identified as critical services before the shutdown or in several court cases , suspended their operations . Most state government services were identified as critical or otherwise allowed to continue , so as much as 80 percent of state government spending continued . The eventual budget agreement started to form after Governor Dayton announced on July 14 that he would " reluctantly " pass the last proposal of the Republican legislative leadership before the shutdown , but with conditions . The shutdown was disruptive to the government and some Minnesotans , but its ultimate economic impact was minimal . Politically , it could have influenced the Republican electoral defeat in the 2012 state elections , although there were other factors that may have been more important . 


 = = Background = = 


 Going into the 2010 state elections , the Minnesota government faced an approximately $ 5 billion budget shortfall in the coming 2011 – 2013 biennium , left over from the outgoing administration of Republican Governor Tim Pawlenty . The Republican Party claimed that the shortfall was a result of unsustainable increases in spending , and pledged to balance the budget without raising taxes . In the gubernatorial election , former U.S. Senator Mark Dayton campaigned pledging to close the budget deficit by increasing income taxes on the state 's highest earners . 

 The Republicans won control of both houses of the legislature for the first time in decades , while Dayton narrowly defeated Republican candidate Tom Emmer with 44 % of the vote . Many of the newly elected Republican legislators were affiliated with the Tea Party movement and had more anti @-@ government positions than the Republican establishment . Both Dayton and Republican legislators claimed a popular mandate for their positions . 

 Minnesota 's state government cannot operate without appropriations under law , as mandated by the Minnesota Constitution . However , state courts have determined that Priority One and Two Critical Services must continue in the event of a shutdown . Services that must remain uninterrupted to avoid a potential immediate threat to public health or safety are considered Priority One , and some additional services are designated Priority Two . Before the shutdown , a list of priority services was compiled and prepared by Minnesota Management and Budget , based on recommendations from state agencies . 

 Since Minnesota had divided governments for decades before 2010 , a number of past budgets had brought the state close to a shutdown , and there had been one shutdown before in state history . After Governor Pawlenty and the Republican @-@ majority House could not agree on a budget with the DFL @-@ majority Senate in 2005 , the state government went through a nine @-@ day shutdown . 


 = = Preceding budget negotiations = = 


 Governor Dayton formally proposed a state budget on February 15 , calling for $ 37 billion in state spending , necessitating cuts of about 10 percent to most state agencies . Because the state was projected to take in only about $ 32 billion in taxes , the rest of the budget shortfall was covered by increases to income and property taxes for wealthier Minnesotans , as he had promised during his campaign . Meanwhile , Republican legislators , led by House Speaker Kurt Zellers and Senate Majority Leader Amy Koch , demanded the budget be kept below $ 32 billion . 

 As negotiations went on during the legislative session , Dayton suggested compromise budget frameworks ultimately reducing his proposed budget to $ 35 @.@ 8 billion , but insisted that he would go no further and that Republicans were not amenable enough to compromise . The legislature passed budget bills that balanced the budget with significant cuts to social and infrastructure services , rather than raising any taxes . They described their budget as a compromise with the DFL after the state 's revenue forecast was revised upward , as it called for $ 34 billion in state spending increased from $ 32 billion . Dayton claimed that the impasse was the doing of " extreme right @-@ wing " freshman Republican legislators whom he did not talk to , and that he had cordial relationships with Republican leaders . In a statement at the end of the session on May 23 , Dayton said " Here I am in the middle — and they haven 't moved " . Republicans , including Koch and other legislative leaders , consistently insisted they would not accept a budget of over $ 34 billion , citing polls suggesting public opinion was on their side . During the session , the Republican Party held a rally calling for tax cuts at the State Capitol on May 7 . Protesters supporting Dayton 's tax increases and opposed to the Republicans , many from public employee unions , gathered at the capitol multiple times , including at the end of the session . 

 By the day after the regular session ended , Dayton had vetoed all of the budget bills passed by the legislature , and said in a statement that he anticipated a shutdown would occur . Dayton did not call a special session of the legislature to further address the budget during May or June , claiming that the lack of agreement between him and Zellers and Koch would make it unproductive to do so . He remained in contact with legislative leaders , sticking by the $ 35 @.@ 8 billion budget he proposed late in the session , with minor changes . As the end of June approached , Koch urged the governor to call a session to pass a temporary ' lights @-@ on ' bill while a final deal was reached , but he refused to answer this proposal on the grounds that extending the budget 's deadline would not serve the goal of reaching a final agreement . Since the budget impasse had not ended by the end of June 30 , the shutdown began at midnight of June 30 – July 1 , 2011 . 


 = = Shutdown = = 


 At that time the shutdown began , all state government spending and operations not considered to be critical stopped . Suspended state services included driving tests , childcare assistance , senior and disability linkage lines , criminal background checks , and road construction . State government offices , state parks , highway rest areas , and sites run by the Minnesota Historical Society , among others , closed . The commissioner of the Department of Human Services , Lucinda Jesson , said that letters had to be sent to over 580 @,@ 000 households that relied on the department for social services to notify them about the possible shutdown . More critical parts of the state government , including public safety , health care , benefit payments , and care for residents of state facilities continued . Services that were continued during the shutdown could have amounted to as much as 80 percent of state spending . 

 During the first days of the shutdown , many programs requested that their funding continue , especially social service organizations that relied on state funding . To hear their pleas , the courts appointed retired State Supreme Court judge Kathleen Blatz as a special master . Dayton and State Attorney General Lori Swanson also both submitted petitions to the Ramsey County District Court when the shutdown began , asking for the court to clarify whether some programs could continue . Judges Kathleen Gearin and Bruce W. Christopherson issued their rulings on July 7 , finding that some programs could start again , including criminal background checks , public schools , and local government aid . Gearin complained that the governor and legislature should have been responsible for making decisions about which services could stay open . Gearin had previously heard a case from the Minnesota Zoo , which asked to remain open despite the shutdown , and another from the Canterbury Park horse racing track in Shakopee . While both pay for themselves at least during the summer , Gearin determined that only the Zoo was allowed to operate without legislative appropriations , so she allowed the Zoo to open on July 2 but ordered Canterbury Park to remain closed the same day . 


 = = Effects = = 


 During the shutdown , some 19 @,@ 000 state employees were laid off . State and federal government employees in Minnesota lost approximately $ 65 million in wages over the course of the shutdown . Because of court rulings , some of the 36 @,@ 000 state employees who received layoff notices leading up to the shutdown continued or returned to work during the shutdown . Laid @-@ off employees were immediately eligible for unemployment benefits , and continued to receive health insurance , costing the state millions a week . 

 In addition to the costs associated with staff , Minnesota lost some revenue during the shutdown . The Minnesota State Lottery did not sell tickets during the shutdown , which meant the state could have lost about $ 1 @.@ 25 million in revenue daily . Minnesota stopped selling tax stamps for cigarettes , which must be affixed to each pack before sale . The Star Tribune reported that cigarette sales would come to a halt by mid @-@ August if no more tax stamps were issued . The state also stopped issuing liquor purchasing cards , which businesses need in order to purchase liquor from wholesalers . Many stores , bars , and restaurants renewed their liquor purchasing cards before the shutdown . However , the purchasing cards for approximately three hundred establishments expired on the first day of the shutdown , July 1 . Liquor purchasing cards would have continued to expire on the first day of each month . Alcohol brand licenses expired , so MillerCoors lost their license to sell 39 brands of beer in Minnesota , and had to have them removed from shelves . 

 While public schools remained open during the shutdown , and teachers continued to be paid following Gearin 's ruling , the shutdown interfered with their operations , and would have caused serious problems if it had continued . Teachers could not renew or receive new licenses during the shutdown , creating a backlog , and property tax levy approvals could have been delayed . No fishing , hunting , and boating licenses or new drivers ' licenses were issued during the shutdown . Taxes continued to be due , but tax refunds stopped . 

 Services for state parks stopped , including roads , making them mostly accessible only by foot , and causing a number of problems . An official for the Department of Natural Resources told the Pioneer Press that visitors were relieving themselves on trails in Gooseberry Falls State Park , as the restrooms were closed , and that uncollected garbage attracted bears in Crow Wing State Park . Vandalism occurred at Afton State Park , where the main office was " ransacked " and a group of twelve " ripped off shingles and pieces of deck for firewood , burned additional furniture and wrote messages bragging about breaking in for free " . While many state @-@ run attractions were closed during the shutdown , institutions not part of the state government stayed open . Museums such as the Science Museum of Minnesota reported an increase in visits , as did county parks and attractions in neighboring states . 

 In an arson case at the former home of Governor Dayton near Lake Harriet in Minneapolis , police were " investigating the possibility that someone [ was ] upset over last week 's shutdown " . 

 In total , about $ 48 million in revenue was lost , and over $ 10 million was spent on expenses related to preparing for and recovering from the shutdown . Overall , the shutdown disrupted the state government 's activities , the lives of some Minnesotans ( especially the most vulnerable ) , and private sector work such as road construction , but had minimal impact on the larger economy of the state . 


 = = Budget agreement = = 


 For the first two weeks of the shutdown , there was little progress and neither the governor nor the Republican leaders made proposals accepted by the other side . On July 4 , Republican lawmakers affirmed their commitment to not agree to a budget of over $ 34 billion . Documents leaked after June 30 stated that the Republican leadership included anti @-@ abortion provisions , a voter ID requirement , and a ban on stem cell research during the budget negotiations . Both the Republican legislative leaders and Dayton ( along with DFL legislative leaders ) toured Minnesota to make their case to Minnesotans . The government shutdown ended after Governor Dayton announced on July 14 that he would accept the last Republican offer before the shutdown , albeit with certain conditions . 

 The Republican offer called for an approximately $ 35 billion budget and no tax increases , and relied on delaying the payment of some K @-@ 12 school aid and issuing bonds against future tobacco revenue to cover the remaining gap . It differed from the previous Republican proposals in several provisions , particularly increasing the K @-@ 12 per @-@ student formula by $ 50 per year to cover additional borrowing costs , adding $ 10 million to the University of Minnesota budget to equalize Minnesota State Colleges and Universities cuts , and restoring funding to the Department of Human Rights and the Trade Office . Dayton 's conditions were that measures on social issues such as abortion be dropped from the budget , 15 percent reductions to state employees in all agencies be dropped , and a $ 500 million infrastructure construction bonding bill . 

 When a final agreement was reached with the Republican legislative leadership , Dayton called a special session of the legislature on July 19 . The legislature met on July 20 and passed the budget bills , which were signed the same day by the governor . Most state employees returned to work on July 21 , facing a backlog of unfinished work and new problems in many agencies . After the budget was passed , Dayton said he approached Republicans again after meeting with ordinary citizens — who said they wanted government services to resume and did not care how the shutdown was ended — and because he feared a worse budget deal and unease in the DFL legislative minorities . Zellers said when the deal was finalized that in his view it was " a deal that we can all be disappointed in , but a deal that is done , a budget that was balanced . " His sentiments that a ' balanced ' budget needed to be passed , and that both sides had something to be unhappy about , were echoed by Koch . 


 = = Political influence = = 


 According to a MinnPost poll , Minnesotans blamed the Republican legislature more for the shutdown . Overall , 42 % said Republicans in the legislature were more responsible , 21 % said the DFL governor was more responsible , and 22 % volunteered an answer that they were equally to blame . As expected , partisans blamed the other party more ; only 10 % of Republicans blamed the legislature more , and only 2 % of DFLers blamed Dayton more . Following the shutdown , DFL Representative Phyllis Kahn authored a continuing appropriations bill that would prevent government shutdowns in the event of disagreements between the governor and legislature , as she had done in several past sessions . The House commissioned a policy brief from its research department , published in December 2011 , that looked into what such a bill would require . The brief noted that such ideas had been considered before , including after the 2005 shutdown , and had been abandoned . 

 In the state elections of 2012 , during which all members of the legislature ( but not the governor ) were up for election , the shutdown was a major campaign issue . The Republicans lost their majorities in both houses of the legislature , giving the DFL full control of the state government . Kurt Zellers and other Republican legislators said the shutdown probably was one reason for their electoral defeat . However , other national and state issues may have had more of an influence on the result . The presidential race was also on the ballot , as were the proposed Minnesota Marriage Amendment and Voter ID Amendment , which had been put on the ballot by the legislature in 2011 . All of these ballot items increased the turnout of DFL @-@ leaning voters . 

 After winning control of the state legislature , the DFL passed a $ 38 billion budget containing the tax hikes on the wealthy that Dayton had wanted in 2011 . The shutdown still was a political issue in the 2014 elections , when gubernatorial candidates Zellers and Marty Seifert were among the candidates for statewide office who had been Republican legislators during the shutdown . Zellers claimed having " balanced the budget without a tax increase " during the shutdown was his signature accomplishment as speaker , but he was criticised by Republican rivals and DFL leaders alike for the shutdown and for the means by which the budget was balanced . 



 = Hurricane Bret ( 1999 ) = 


 Hurricane Bret was the first of five Category 4 hurricanes that developed during the 1999 Atlantic hurricane season and the first tropical cyclone since Hurricane Jerry in 1989 to make landfall in Texas at hurricane intensity . Forming from a tropical wave on August 18 , Bret slowly organized within weak steering currents in the Bay of Campeche . By August 20 , the storm began to track northward and underwent rapid intensification on August 21 . After this period of strengthening , Bret attained its peak intensity with winds of 145 mph ( 230 km / h ) and a barometric pressure of 944 mbar ( hPa ; 27 @.@ 88 inHg ) . Later that day , the storm weakened to a Category 3 hurricane and made landfall on Padre Island , Texas . Shortly thereafter , the storm weakened further , becoming a tropical depression 24 hours after moving inland . The remnants of the storm eventually dissipated early on August 26 over northern Mexico . 

 Along the Texas coastline , Bret threatened several cities , prompting 180 @,@ 000 residents to evacuate . Numerous shelters were opened throughout the region and prisons were evacuated . Several days prior to the storm 's arrival , the NHC issued hurricane watches , and later warnings for areas near the Texas – Mexico border . Several major roads leading to barrier island towns were shut down to prevent residents from crossing bridges during the hurricane . In nearby Mexico , roughly 7 @,@ 000 people left coastal areas in advance of the storm . Officials also set up hundreds of shelters in northern regions of the country in case of major flooding . 

 Bret made landfall in a sparsely populated region , resulting in relatively little damage in comparison to its intensity . Nevertheless , seven people were killed in relation to storm , four in Texas and three in Mexico . Most of the deaths were due to car accidents caused by slippery roads . Upon making landfall , the hurricane produced a maximum storm surge of 8 @.@ 8 ft ( 2 @.@ 7 m ) at Matagorda Island , Texas . Heavy rains produced by Bret peaked at 13 @.@ 18 in ( 335 mm ) in Texas and were estimated over 14 in ( 360 mm ) in Mexico . Numerous homes in the affected regions were damaged or destroyed , leaving roughly 150 people homeless . In all , the storm caused $ 15 million ( 1999 USD ; $ 19 @.@ 7 million 2009 USD ) in damage . 


 = = Meteorological history = = 


 Hurricane Bret originated from a tropical wave that moved off the west coast of Africa on August 5 . The wave tracked generally westward , interacting with an upper @-@ level low on August 15 in the western Caribbean Sea , and spawned a low pressure area . Convective activity developed around the low , and by August 18 the system was over the Yucatán Peninsula . Later that day , the disturbance emerged into the Bay of Campeche and a Hurricane Hunter reconnaissance mission into the system revealed that it had matured into a tropical depression around 1 : 00 pm CDT ( 1800 UTC ) , the third of the 1999 season . Initially , moderate wind shear prevented the depression from strengthening as it moved slowly and erratically in response to weak steering currents over the system . By August 19 , the wind shear relented , allowing deep convection to develop over the center ; later that day , the National Hurricane Center ( NHC ) upgraded the system to a tropical storm , assigning it the name Bret . A small tropical cyclone , Bret gradually strengthened for several days as it tracked towards the north . By the morning of August 20 , rainbands began to form . 

 By the evening of August 20 , Bret was designated a hurricane following reports of 75 mph ( 120 km / h ) winds during a Hurricane Hunter mission . At around the same time , Bret established a north @-@ northwest track under the influences of a mid @-@ level ridge . The following day , Bret began to undergo rapid intensification , as a well @-@ defined eye developed . On the morning of August 22 , the storm attained its peak intensity as a Category 4 hurricane with winds of 145 mph ( 230 km / h ) and a barometric pressure of 944 mbar ( hPa ; 27 @.@ 88 inHg ) . Shortly thereafter , an upper @-@ level trough to the west of the storm began to erode its cloud pattern . 

 Late on August 22 , Bret turned northwestward in response to a mid @-@ tropospheric ridge over the Gulf of Mexico and a mid @-@ tropospheric circulation over the Rio Grande Valley . Several hours before landfall , the hurricane weakened to Category 3 intensity and its forward motion slowed . At around 7 : 00 pm CDT ( 0000 UTC ; August 23 ) , Hurricane Bret passed over Padre Island , Texas , with winds of 115 mph ( 185 km / h ) and a barometric pressure of 951 mbar ( hPa ; 28 @.@ 08 inHg ) , which marked its landfall . The hurricane rapidly weakened upon moving inland , and roughly 12 hours after landfall , Bret weakened to a tropical storm . It further degenerated into a tropical depression by the evening of August 23 . The remnants of Bret persisted until August 26 , at which time they dissipated over the mountains of northern Mexico . 


 = = Preparations = = 



 = = = Texas = = = 


 On August 21 , when Bret was first expected to approach the Texas coastline , the NHC issued a hurricane watch for coastal areas between the border of Mexico and Baffin Bay , Texas . Hours later , the watch was upgraded to a warning as the storm intensified and posed a more direct threat to the area . A tropical storm warning and hurricane watch were subsequently posted from Baffin Bay northward to Port Aransas . The following day , the hurricane warning was extended to include locations through Port O 'Connor and the advisories were extended to Freeport . As Bret neared landfall , the hurricane watch between Port O 'Connor and Freeport was discontinued . The hurricane warning for Port Aransas to Port O 'Connor was discontinued hours after Bret made landfall and began to weaken . By late August 23 , all watches and warnings in relation to the hurricane were discontinued . 

 By August 22 , city officials in Corpus Christi , Texas declared a state of emergency as Bret was considered a significant threat to the region . Tens of thousands of residents were urged to evacuate coastal areas and seek refuge in local shelters or with relatives further inland . An estimated 180 @,@ 000 people in the state left their residences ahead of the storm . The Corpus Christi International Airport closed midday on August 22 . Later that day , Texas State Highway 361 and docks in Port Aransas were shut down . Highways throughout the area were congested due to the large @-@ scale evacuations and long lines for gas and emergency items developed . Three schools , two universities and a college were closed on August 23 and remained closed for several days . 

 Eleven shelters were opened in the San Antonio area , collectively able to accommodate 3 @,@ 525 people . About 325 prisoners were evacuated from a Nueces County jail as the building they were in was deemed unsafe during hurricane conditions . About 1 @,@ 000 sailors working in the area were evacuated to the USS Inchon prior to the storm . Originally , the ship was meant to ride out the storm at sea ; however , inadequate repair work inhibited the ship from leaving port . The ship reportedly had enough supplies to maintain the sailors for roughly 45 days . By 12 : 00 pm CDT on August 22 , Mustang Island and Padre Island were completely evacuated and officials shut down roads leading in and out of the islands to prevent anyone from re @-@ entering them before the area was deemed safe to enter . A strict order against price gouging was put in place by city officials in Corpus Christi . 


 = = = Mexico = = = 


 In Mexico , officials closed 18 ports on the Gulf of Mexico to small- and medium @-@ sized craft in preparation for the storm . In northern Mexico , more than 500 shelters were opened as thousands of residents were advised to evacuate from low @-@ lying areas . The Mexican Army , Red Cross , and firefighters were put on standby to deal with emergency calls during the storm . On August 22 , a state of emergency was declared for Tamaulipas . The following day , at least 120 firefighters were dispatched to Monterrey , Nuevo Leon to swiftly respond to emergencies . The Mexican government emphasized the safety of residents in the city , which was anticipated to bear the brunt of the hurricane . Around 7 @,@ 000 fishermen evacuated coastal regions near the Texas border . In Matamoros an additional 31 shelters were opened . Schools throughout northern Mexico were closed for several days . 


 = = Impact = = 



 = = = Mexico = = = 


 Prior to developing into a tropical depression , the disturbance produced scattered rainfall across the Yucatán Peninsula , locally exceeding 7 in ( 180 mm ) . As the system stalled in the Bay of Campeche , coastal areas received minor rainfall from the outer bands of the system . Although Bret made landfall near the Texas @-@ Mexico border , the small size of the system resulted in limited impacts in Mexico . In Nuevo Leon , an estimated 14 in ( 360 mm ) of rain fell within a 24 @-@ hour span and similar amounts likely fell in nearby Tamaulipas . In Tamaulipas , Nuevo Leon and Coahuila , ten villages were isolated by floodwaters that washed out roads . Ten people , all members of one family , were injured during a head @-@ on collision . In Nogales , heavy rains caused water to accumulate on streets , leading to traffic jams ; high winds also downed power lines . During the evacuation prior to Bret , one person was trampled to death . Following landfall , a man was electrocuted by downed power lines and another drowned in floodwaters . At least 150 families were left homeless following a flash flood in Cadereyta that inundated most of the town . 


 = = = Texas = = = 


 Upon making landfall , Bret produced a storm surge up to 8 @.@ 8 ft ( 2 @.@ 7 m ) on Matagorda Island , Texas . Around Galveston , minor beach erosion was recorded due to large swells produced by the hurricane . Twelve new inlets were created on Padre Island , one of which was large enough to be mistaken as Mansfield Pass . Heavy precipitation , reaching 13 @.@ 18 in ( 335 mm ) in central Kenedy County , was confined to a small area . The lowest barometric pressure recorded overland was at the Brooks County Airport at 976 mbar ( hPa ; 28 @.@ 84 inHg ) . The Aransas River rapidly reached flood stage due to heavy rains and the Rio Grande produced minor flooding close to the Gulf of Mexico . In beaches near Corpus Christi , upwards of 40 ft3 ( 1 @.@ 1 m3 ) of sand was lost . About 24 @.@ 7 acres ( 10 @.@ 0 ha ) of cropland were destroyed by the storm . 

 A damaged electric tower in Kenedy County resulted in power outages for thousands of people . At the height of the storm , an estimated 64 @,@ 000 people were without power in south Texas . Portions of Texas State Highway Loop 281 were submerged in floodwaters , leaving $ 50 @,@ 000 ( 1999 USD ) in damage . Damage in Corpus Christi were estimated at $ 100 @,@ 000 ( 1999 USD ) . In Duval County , 200 homes were damaged by flooding and large areas of agricultural land were flooded . Damage in the county amounted to roughly $ 2 million ( 1999 USD ) . Five other F0 tornadoes touched down in the state . Damage to homes and businesses in Corpus Christi was estimated up to $ 500 @,@ 000 ( 1999 USD ) ; agricultural damage reached $ 1 million and another $ 500 @,@ 000 ( 1999 USD ) was reported in losses . Slick roads from Bret 's heavy rains caused the collision of a truck and a tractor , killing four people . Damage amounted to $ 15 million ( 1999 USD ) throughout southern Texas . 


 = = Aftermath = = 


 On August 23 , the Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) deployed 717 personnel , mainly from the disaster response team , to the affected regions in the United States . The following day , 564 National Guard troops were deployed in the state . In the days following the storm , many mosquitoes and other insects laid eggs in areas of standing water , causing a large increase in their numbers . Authorities sprayed insecticide to minimize the potential for disease outbreaks . By August 25 , all shelters opened prior to Bret were closed as residents were allowed to return home . On August 26 , President Bill Clinton added the counties of Brooks , Duval , Jim Wells and Webb to the major disaster declaration area . This allowed residents in those counties to receive federal funding . 

 Reconstruction of public facilities , roads , and water pipes received increased funding on September 3 to speed up the program . The following day , twelve disaster recovery centers were opened in the affected counties for residents to apply for federal funding . On September 9 , two more disaster recovery centers were opened for residents in south Texas . Later that day , $ 831 @,@ 593 @.@ 28 ( 1999 USD ) in disaster housing grants was distributed to affected residents . On September 15 , roughly 10 @,@ 200 people applied for disaster loans , amounting to $ 3 @.@ 1 million ( 1999 USD ) . A total of 167 also received crisis intervention from FEMA . In Corpus Christi , winds and rain covered the city in debris and brush , costing $ 200 @,@ 000 ( 1999 USD ) for clean @-@ up . 



 = Brain Age 2 : More Training in Minutes a Day ! = 


 Brain Age 2 : More Training in Minutes a Day ! ( stylized as Brain Age2 ) , JPN also known as More Brain Training from Dr. Kawashima : How Old Is Your Brain ? in PAL regions , is an edutainment puzzle game and the sequel to Brain Age : Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day ! ( 2005 ) . It was published and developed by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS handheld game console . Before the game begins , the player must perform a Brain Age Check to determine their brain age , which ranges from 20 to 80 , to determine approximately their brain 's responsiveness . A brain age of 20 , the lowest age that the player can achieve , indicates that the player 's brain is as responsive as that of an average 20 @-@ year @-@ old . After the player is told their initial brain age , they can complete a series of minigames to help improve their brain 's responsiveness , after which they can run Brain Age Check again to determine their updated brain age . 

 Critics were generally favorable towards Brain Age 2 , which received aggregated scores of 77 % from Metacritic and 79 @.@ 04 % from GameRankings . Praise focused on improvements made on Brain Age , while criticism targeted the game 's inability to consistently understand written and spoken answers . The game was voted IGN 's Reader 's Game of the Month for August 2007 . In the United States , it was the 13th best @-@ selling game in its debut month , and climbed to 9th place in September 2007 , selling 141 @,@ 000 copies in that month . In Japan , Brain Age 2 was the best @-@ selling game in its debut month , selling 1 @,@ 084 @,@ 857 units . As of July 2007 , 5 @.@ 33 million copies of Brain Age 2 have been sold in Japan . As of March 31 , 2013 , the game 's worldwide sales have reached 14 @.@ 88 million and it is seventh on the Nintendo DS best @-@ sellers list . 


 = = Gameplay = = 


 Similar to its predecessor , Brain Age 2 is an edutainment video game that offers the player several minigames to play . Before the game begins , the player must create a profile , after which Brain Age Check runs three random tests to determine the player 's brain age , which ranges from 20 to 80 and depends on the player 's test performance . The brain age determines approximately the responsiveness of the player 's brain ; a brain age of 20 , the lowest age that the player can achieve , indicates that the player 's brain is as responsive as that of an average 20 @-@ year @-@ old . Once the player is told their initial brain age , three modes are unlocked : Quick Play , Daily Training , and Sudoku . In Quick Play , the player can practice with any of the available minigames without receiving a score . In Daily Training , the player can perform Brain Age Check to determine their updated brain age . They can also complete one of the available minigames , after which they are given a rating based on their performance . In Daily Training , the player can also play Virus Buster , a simplified version of Dr. Mario ( 1990 ) modified for mobile play . To let the player track their progress , the game saves daily statistics of the player 's performance , which are shown in a graph . In the third mode , Sudoku , the player can solve one of a hundred Sudoku puzzles . 

 All of the minigames in Brain Age 2 are different from those of the original Brain Age . Brain Age 2 contains six minigames : Rock , Paper , Scissors , Serial Subtraction , Symbol Match , Math Recall , Number Memory , and High Number . The game 's Training mode includes the following activities : Sign Finder , Piano Player , Word Blend , Word Scramble , Change Maker , Calendar Count , Memory Sprint , Math Recall , Clock Spin , and Block Count . During their training , the player can collect stamps by completing minigames , and only one stamp can be collected per day . When a certain numbers of stamps are collected , new minigames and features are unlocked . 


 = = Development = = 


 At a Nintendo press conference in Tokyo , Japan on October 5 , 2005 , the company announced several games that it would be releasing in 2006 in Japan . The list included Brain Age 2 , with a release date set for December 29 , 2005 . Nintendo later announced that the game would be released in Europe on June 29 , 2007 for € 30 , and in Australia on July 5 , 2007 for A $ 49 @.@ 95 . The American version of Brain Age 2 was first revealed in May 2007 . The game is targeted to casual gamers , similar to its predecessor ; its basic concepts stay the same as in Brain Age , along with the graphics , menu , and presentation . Brain Age 2 also uses the same Sudoku engine , an addition in the original Brain Age that has been applauded for being one of the best handheld Sudoku games available ; Brain Age 2 's rendition of Sudoku introduces 100 new puzzles . All of the minigames in the game are new to the series ; however , some of them are derived from exercises in Brain Age . One of the challenges in the first game , Head Count , requires that the player count how many people are shown on the screen ; after a few seconds , a house falls on top of them , and then several people leave and enter the house . Afterward , the player must write down how many people they think are still in the house . A variation of this game is available in Brain Age 2 , called Memory Sprint , which asks the player to observe a specific sprinter in a race as they pass other sprinters and are passed themselves , and then determine which place they finished in after they cross the finish line . The game 's voice recognition technology has improved since the last game . The only challenge that uses the feature , Rock , Paper , Scissors , requires that the player speak the correct answer into the microphone as soon as possible . 

 Nintendo 's advertising campaign for Brain Age 2 featured several celebrities . The company announced on June 25 , 2007 that Australian actress Nicole Kidman would appear in European television and newspaper advertisements to promote the game . Nintendo chose to feature her because of " her universal appeal to mainstream audiences of all ages and backgrounds , as well as her reputation for being intelligent , entertaining and genuine " . Kidman praised Nintendo 's desire to reach out to new audiences with self @-@ improvement products , and found that playing the game made her feel young . Nintendo also chose professional swimmer Kieren Perkins to promote Brain Age 2 in his native Australia , who commented , " Having used the original Dr Kawashima 's Brain Training game for a while now , I was genuinely looking forward to all of the new ways I could exercise my mind . More Brain Training is the perfect way for me to continue my Brain Training workout , while keeping the activities fresh and interesting . " In the United States , print advertisements and television commercials for the game featured American actress Liv Tyler . 


 = = Reception = = 


 Brain Age 2 was released by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS in Japan on December 29 , 2005 , in Europe on June 29 , 2007 , in Australia on July 5 , 2007 , and in North America on August 20 , 2007 . A Brain Age 2 Nintendo DS bundle was released in North America on August 21 , 2007 , which included a copy of Brain Age 2 and a Nintendo DS colored crimson on the top and matte black on the bottom . At a Nintendo Conference on October 2 , 2008 , Nintendo 's president Satoru Iwata announced during his keynote address that both games in the Brain Age series were redeveloped as two DSiWare games called Small Brain DSi Training Everyday for Adults Literature Edition and Science Edition . The DSiWare iterations include training modes from the previous two Nintendo DS games , including new ones that take advantage of the Nintendo DSi 's camera . Brain Age 2 was given generally favorable reviews , receiving aggregated scores of 77 % from Metacritic and 79 @.@ 04 % from GameRankings . Praise focused on improvements made on Brain Age , while criticism targeted the game 's inability to consistently understand written and spoken answers . The game was voted IGN 's Reader 's Game of the Month for August 2007 . 

 Remarking that Brain Age 2 uses the same formula as Brain Age " with some different variables thrown in " , Game Informer noted that players ' opinions of the original Brain Age will most likely be similar to how much they appreciate Brain Age 2 . GameZone was excited about the Sudoku portion of the game , which they complimented was " worth the entire game itself and will provide many hours of fun " . They found the daily training and quick play modes " simply addictive " , and appreciated the game 's " simple and easy to use interface " . The video game website IGN felt differently , however , noting that the challenges felt fresh , with the exception of Sudoku . IGN agreed with GameZone on a particular point , however , writing that both the original Brain Age , and Brain Age 2 , have " calm , clean interface [ s ] " . The television series X @-@ Play was intrigued by Brain Age 2 's promise to improve a person 's intelligence . GameSpy called the game " the ideal video game gateway drug " because of its accessibility to a wide variety of people , lack of requirements for special physical dexterity or experience , and regular reward system to motivate the player . They also considered Brain Age 2 a " noble effort towards the betterment of our mental health through a painless training regimen " . Game Revolution complimented the game 's intelligent use of Nintendo DS features , " fun " sound effects , and " competent " handwriting recognition . Singapore 's The Straits Times considered Brain Age 2 a good investment , despite noting that hardcore gamers might find the minigames " gimmicky " . Recognizing that Nintendo intends to use the game to target baby boomers , The Globe and Mail writes that they were tempted to play the game at work and justify it as a self @-@ improvement program . 

 Even though 1UP.com noticed slight improvements in Brain Age 2 , they found that it also introduced new issues . They considered it difficult for the game to understand their writing , and were also displeased with what they perceived as an arrogant tone with Dr. Kawashima , the game 's avatar . Disappointed with the lack of new additions to Brain Age 2 , GamePro asked readers " [ not to ] expect too much more content than new tests and more Sudoku grids " . Nintendo World Report was also unhappy with the game , telling players who were " hoping for an overhaul [ ... ] to wait for the inevitable Brain Age 3 " . The Toronto Star reminded its readers that although Brain Age 2 bills itself as a game that is able to make players smarter , it actually means that " the word smart has been temporarily re @-@ defined to mean ' good at playing Brain Age 2 . ' " 

 Brain Age 2 was the 13th best @-@ selling game in its debut month of August 2007 in the United States , and climbed up to 9th place in September 2007 , selling 141 @,@ 000 copies . It was the 10th best @-@ selling game for October 2007 , selling 116 @,@ 900 copies . The game reached 7th place in December 2007 , then went down to 9th place in January 2008 , and dropped further to 16th the following month . In August 2008 , the game was the 13th best @-@ selling game in the United States , and the 11th best @-@ selling game in Canada . In Japan , the game was the best @-@ selling game during its debut month of January 2005 , selling 1 @,@ 084 @,@ 857 units . By March 2006 , the game sold 1 @.@ 7 million copies . For the week of May 15 – 21 , 2006 , the game was the 2nd best @-@ selling game , with 62 @,@ 000 units sold that week and 2 @,@ 281 @,@ 000 copies since its release . As of July 2006 , Brain Age had sold 2 @,@ 539 @,@ 922 copies while Brain Age 2 had sold 2 @,@ 752 @,@ 211 copies in Japan , outselling its predecessor by more than 200 @,@ 000 units . As of July 2007 , 5 @.@ 33 million copies of Brain Age 2 had been sold in Japan . More than two @-@ thirds of the people who purchased Brain Age 2 are over the age of 25 . As of March 31 , 2013 , the game 's worldwide sales have reached 14 @.@ 88 million . 


 = = = Effectiveness = = = 


 A survey conducted by Alain Lieury , a professor of cognitive psychology at the University of Rennes 2 – Upper Brittany , indicates that working on exercises with a pencil and paper is just as good as Brain Age 2 at stimulating the memory . After evaluating ten @-@ year @-@ old children , the survey found " no evidence to support claims in Nintendo 's advertising campaign , featuring Nicole Kidman , that users can test and rejuvenate their grey cells " . Lieury finds Brain Age 2 acceptable as a game , but considers it charlatanism for Nintendo to claim it as a scientific test , countering the company 's assertions that its edutainment products such as Big Brain Academy and Brain Age 2 can improve blood flow to the brain and supposedly improving " practical intelligence " . Regarding whether or not brain training games are effective , Graham Lawton of New Scientist wrote , " All things considered , it 's hard not to conclude that brain training has been proven to work — under certain circumstances . [ ... ] It 's also worth pointing out that no study has shown that brain training makes cognitive abilities any worse . " Lawton notes that Nintendo avoids providing evidence that its Brain Age series actually leads to noticeable improvements in brain functions , and that it instead " is careful not to claim that Brain Age is scientifically validated , merely stating that it is an entertainment product ' inspired ' by [ Dr. Ryuta Kawashima 's ] work . " 



 = Robyn Regehr = 


 Robyn Regehr ( born April 19 , 1980 ) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey defenceman . He was a first round draft pick of the Colorado Avalanche , selected 19th overall at the 1998 NHL Entry Draft , but was traded to the Calgary Flames prior to the start of his professional career , and has also played for the Buffalo Sabres in an NHL career that has spanned 1 @,@ 089 games . Regehr won his first Stanley Cup in 2014 with the Kings , on what was his 15th year in the NHL . He was a member of the Canadian team at the 2006 Winter Olympics , and has won silver medals at the World Junior and Senior championships , as well as the championship at the 2004 World Cup of Hockey . 

 Regehr was born in Brazil , and spent his early childhood in Indonesia before his parents settled back in Canada . At 19 , he was the youngest nominee for the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy in NHL history after he made his NHL debut less than four months after suffering two broken legs in a serious automobile accident . He is best known for his strong defence and physical ability . His younger brother Richie briefly played with him on the Flames . Regher announced his retirement from the NHL on April 11th , 2015 . In early 2016 Regehr announced that he would return to the Calgary Flames and retire in their colours . 


 = = Early life = = 


 Regehr was born on April 19 , 1980 in Recife , Brazil , the second son of Canadian Mennonite missionaries Ron and Edith Regehr . Regehr only lived in Brazil for the first nine months of his life . From three to seven years old he lived in Indonesia , where his younger brother , Richie was born . He also has an older brother and a sister . The family finally settled back in Canada , at Rosthern , Saskatchewan around the time he turned seven . Regehr quickly picked up the game of hockey , but was held back in his first year of minor hockey as he was starting the game three years behind other kids his age . He helped his father operate the natural surface ice rink in Rosthern , often spending hours manually preparing the ice . 


 = = Playing career = = 



 = = = Junior = = = 


 The Kamloops Blazers of the Western Hockey League ( WHL ) selected Regehr with their first pick , 17th overall , in the 1995 WHL Bantam Draft . He played as a 15 @-@ year @-@ old with the Prince Albert Mintos of the Saskatchewan Midget AAA Hockey League where he was named the team 's top defenceman . He then joined the Blazers for the 1996 – 97 WHL season . Two years later , the Colorado Avalanche drafted him in the first round , 19th overall , at the 1998 NHL Entry Draft . Regehr broke out following the draft , scoring 12 goals and 32 points in 1998 – 99 , and helped the Blazers reach the WHL championship where they lost to the Calgary Hitmen . He was named a Western Conference All @-@ Star by the WHL and a third @-@ team All @-@ Star by the Canadian Hockey League , and represented Canada at the 1999 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships , winning a silver medal . 

 Late in that season , the Calgary Flames dealt all @-@ star forward Theoren Fleury , along with Chris Dingman , to the Avalanche for Rene Corbet , Wade Belak , a draft pick and their choice of a prospect from a list provided by Colorado . Impressed with his defensive potential , the Flames later chose Regehr to complete that trade . His professional career nearly ended before it started , as he was seriously injured in an automobile accident near Saskatoon , Saskatchewan on July 4 , 1999 . Regehr , who was driving home from a summer trip with his elder brother Dinho ( Ronald ) and two female friends , was struck head @-@ on by another vehicle that crossed into his path . He suffered two broken legs in the crash that killed two people in the other vehicle . Doctors initially feared that he would never play hockey again . 


 = = = National Hockey League = = = 



 = = = = Calgary Flames = = = = 


 Following operations to repair the damage to Regehr 's legs , doctors gained optimism , but expected he would be unable to skate before the end of the year . He far exceeded doctors ' expectations ; he was skating by the beginning of September and was back playing hockey less than four months following the accident . He played a five game conditioning stint with the Saint John Flames of the American Hockey League in late October before being recalled by the Flames on October 28 , 1999 . That night , he made his NHL debut against the Ottawa Senators and was praised by his coach , Brian Sutter , for playing a mistake free game . He scored his first NHL goal on November 10 against the San Jose Sharks . Regehr played 57 games for the Flames in 1999 – 2000 , scoring five goals and 12 points . He was the Flames nominee for the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy , which recognizes perseverance , sportsmanship and dedication to hockey . At the age of 19 , he was the youngest nominee in NHL history . The Flames also presented him with the Ralph T. Scurfield Humanitarian Award in honour of his perseverance . 

 Regehr struggled in 2001 – 02 , finishing with a team worst − 24 plus / minus while occasionally being left out of the lineup as a healthy scratch . Unhappy with his season , he focused on improving his game . He overcame rib , abdominal and wrist injuries in 2002 – 03 to establish himself as a top defender with the team and earned a second Masterton Trophy nomination for his dedication . The Flames rewarded him with a five @-@ year contract extension prior to the 2003 – 04 season . They also named him an alternate captain , a position he continuously held for the remainder of his stay in Calgary . 

 Not known for his offensive ability , Regehr ended a 100 @-@ game goal scoring drought early in the season , finishing with four for the season . He set a career high with 18 points , and was a key player in the Flames improbable run to the 2004 Stanley Cup Finals facing top opposition players . He played the final two games of the Stanley Cup Final despite tearing ligaments in his foot in game five . His performance in the post season earned him the praise of his opponents . 

 While the 2004 – 05 season was cancelled due to a labour dispute , Regehr played in a European charity tour that saw NHL players form a " Worldstars " team that played ten games in seven countries in December 2004 . While he enjoyed the tour , Regehr stated that he was not interested in joining the many other NHL players who signed on with European teams during the lockout . He was also critical of the position of the league in the lockout , and took on a greater role within the National Hockey League Players Association ( NHLPA ) when he succeeded Jarome Iginla as the Flames player representative following the lockout . 

 While the NHL returned to action in 2005 – 06 , he missed the first month of the season after suffering a knee injury in a pre @-@ season game . Doctors considered Regehr fortunate , believing that a knee brace he had been wearing prevented a more severe injury that would have seen him miss up to six months . Despite missing 14 games , he set career highs in goals ( 6 ) , assists ( 20 ) and points ( 26 ) . He continued to quietly lead the Flames defence and earned a spot on the Canadian Olympic team in 2006 . Regehr briefly played with his brother , Richie , who made his NHL debut with the Flames on December 29 , 2005 . He played the full season in 2006 – 07 , including his 500th career game on March 15 , 2007 , against the Dallas Stars and scored his 100th career point on March 31 against the Vancouver Canucks . However , he was again forced out of the lineup due to a knee injury after only one game in the 2007 Stanley Cup Playoffs . 

 Following the season , the Flames signed Regehr to another five @-@ year contract extension worth a total of US $ 20 @-@ million . The deal was considered to be worth less than he could have gotten as an unrestricted free agent the following year , but he chose to take less to stay in a city his family enjoyed and on a team he felt was competitive . Regehr played all 82 games for the Flames in 2007 – 08 despite being hit in the face by the puck in a game , and suffering a deep bruise on his foot while blocking a shot that was initially feared to be a broken bone . 

 Off the ice , Regehr was named to an NHLPA committee formed in 2007 to find a replacement for ousted Executive Director Ted Saskin . The union hired Paul Kelly in October 2007 , however he was controversially dismissed less than two years later . Regehr defended the firing , though he and all player representatives were criticized for how they handled Kelly 's dismissal . 

 Another knee injury ended his 2008 – 09 season after 75 games and left him unavailable for the playoffs . He expressed his frustrations with coach Mike Keenan , who was fired by the team after failing to advance past the first round of the playoffs , criticizing Keenan 's lack of structure and expressing optimism for the team 's chances under a new coach . After failing to score a goal in 2008 – 09 and the first half of the 2009 – 10 season , Regehr scored his first goal in 141 games on January 18 , 2010 , against the San Jose Sharks . He finished with 2 goals and 17 points that season and matched those totals in 2010 – 11 . Upon playing his 804th game late in the season , Regehr surpassed Al MacInnis as the team 's all @-@ time leader in games played by a defenceman . 


 = = = = Buffalo and Los Angeles = = = = 


 After missing the playoffs in the two previous seasons and needing to clear salary cap space to sign Alex Tanguay , the Flames dealt Regehr to the Buffalo Sabres on June 25 , 2011 . He was sent to Buffalo , along with Aleš Kotalík and a second round selection at the 2012 NHL Entry Draft in exchange for Paul Byron and Chris Butler . According to Flames ' general manager Jay Feaster , the deal " surprised " Regehr , who initially was unsure he would waive his no @-@ trade clause and agree to the deal . Regehr accepted the deal after speaking with Sabres ' management . 

 In his first season with Buffalo , 2011 – 12 , Regehr led the Sabres with 172 hits and finished second with 112 blocked shots . His one goal on the season ended another lengthy scoring drought that lasted nearly 11 months . His tenure with the Sabres ended 21 games into the 2012 – 13 season . In the final year of his contract and with Buffalo out of playoff contention , he was dealt to the Los Angeles Kings on April 1 , 2013 , in exchange for two second round draft picks . The Kings acquired Regehr to add a veteran presence and aid the team 's penalty kill . He appeared in 41 games during the season , split between the two teams , and recorded four assists . Shortly after the Kings reached the third round of the 2013 Stanley Cup Playoffs , Regehr and the team agreed to a two @-@ year , $ 6 million contract extension . After the Kings were eliminated from the post @-@ season by the Chicago Blackhawks , Kings ' coach Darryl Sutter revealed he had played the entire playoffs with an elbow injury that required off @-@ season surgery to repair . 

 In the 2013 @-@ 14 NHL season , Regehr begun his 15th year in the NHL , and played his 1,000th game on February 1 , 2014 , against the Philadelphia Flyers . At the 2014 Stanley Cup Playoffs , Regher only played the first round against the San Jose Sharks before being sidelined with a knee injury . Once the Kings won the 2014 Stanley Cup Finals , captain Dustin Brown finished his victory lap by handing the Stanley Cup to Regehr , thanking the veteran for his off @-@ ice presence . 

 Following the last regular season game for the Kings and the last day of the 2014 – 2015 NHL regular season , Regehr announced that he would retire from professional hockey . 


 = = International play = = 


 Regehr joined the Canadian junior team for the 1999 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships , playing all seven games for the silver medal winning Canadians . He made his first appearance with the senior team following his rookie season in the NHL , playing six games in the 2000 Men 's World Ice Hockey Championships . His emergence in the 2004 Stanley Cup playoffs earned him consideration for Canada 's entry at the 2004 World Cup of Hockey . He was named to the team by executive director Wayne Gretzky as he looked to bring a younger team to this tournament than played at the 2002 Winter Olympics . The decision worked , as Regehr and the Canadians won the championship . 

 He played in his second world championship in 2005 , where he won a silver medal after Canada lost the final to the Czech Republic 3 – 0 . The following year , he was named to the Canadian Olympic team for the 2006 Winter Olympics . He recorded one assist in six games , though Canada was unable to defend its 2002 gold medal , failing to medal entirely . Regehr participated in team Canada 's orientation camp for the 2010 Games in the hopes of earning a second opportunity to win an Olympic medal . 


 = = Off the ice = = 


 Regehr married his wife Kristina in late 2007 , and the couple have two sons , Wyatt and Shane . While in Calgary , they were active in the community , serving as honorary co @-@ chairs of the Impact Foundation , an organization that aims to help kids deal with the challenges of growing up . Regehr donated $ 75 to the organization for every bodycheck he was credited with during the NHL season . He is also active with Right to Play , an athlete driven organization that aims to improve the lives of the worlds most impoverished children through sport . He made a trip to Mozambique in the summer of 2008 as an ambassador to the organization , and has participated in charity events for the organization . The Flames named him the inaugural recipient of the J. R. " Bud " McCaig Award in 2006 in honour of his contributions to society . He is an avid outdoorsman ; his favourite winter activity is snowmobiling . He favours wakeboarding in the summer , and has spent time teaching kids outdoor safety . 


 = = Career statistics = = 



 = = = Regular season and playoffs = = = 



 = = = International = = = 



 = = Awards and honours = = 




 = Reality Killed the Video Star = 


 Reality Killed the Video Star is the eighth solo studio album by English singer @-@ songwriter Robbie Williams , released in November 2009 . The album was produced by Trevor Horn and recorded between September 2008 and August 2009 in London and Los Angeles . It debuted in the top ten of 22 national album charts worldwide , and has received varying reviews from music critics . It incorporates elements of pop rock , dance @-@ rock , alternative rock and adult contemporary music . Reality Killed the Video Star was viewed by critics and fans as being Williams ' " comeback album " after the relative failure of his 2006 release , Rudebox . 

 The album was preceded by lead single " Bodies " released in October 2009 . Other single releases include " You Know Me " and " Morning Sun " . The album has been certified platinum in Europe for sales of over one million copies , including 900 @,@ 000 copies sold in the UK alone . Despite this , it was Williams ' first studio album not to reach number one on the UK Albums Chart , beaten to the top spot by a margin of less than 1 % by JLS 's self @-@ titled debut album . 


 = = Background = = 


 Reality Killed the Video Star was Williams ' first studio album in three years . In that period , he worked with many producers , including Guy Chambers , Soul Mekanik , Mark Ronson , and Trevor Horn . However , the British singer confirmed in August 2009 on his official website that the entire album was produced by Trevor Horn , and added that it was recorded in London . 

 Rumours of a new studio album co @-@ written with Chambers had surfaced in early 2007 , along with known commitments required by Williams to complete his EMI contract . British singer @-@ songwriter Laura Critchley commented that she had sung vocals for three songs , and said that the LP would not be released until 2009 . At first it was believed that Williams had reunited with Chambers , but it was later confirmed that the song " Blasphemy " was co @-@ written by the pair during the recording sessions of Williams ' 2002 album Escapology . 

 In February 2009 , it was confirmed that Williams had written material with Soul Mekanik , Chambers and Ronson . The singer 's spokesman , Tim Clark , said that the artist was planning to begin recording sessions in March and that the new album would be released in late 2009 . The album was mostly written in Williams ' home studio and was recorded in London . Amongst those who collaborated in the songwriting were Danny Spencer and Kelvin Andrews , B