ated by FirstGroup , which runs at least every 10 minutes throughout the day . 


 = = Education = = 


 The first evidence of education in Giffnock is of a small private school that operated in the lodge house at the Redhurst Hotel . Due to the increased population , the first public school opened in 1902 in the Tower Rooms of Giffnock United Free Church , known now as the Orchardhill Parish Church . 

 Giffnock has a number of high schools , including St Ninian 's High School , a co @-@ educational Roman Catholic High School which was built in 1984 and is Scotland 's top @-@ performing state school . St Ninian 's was the first state @-@ funded school in Scotland to abandon the Standard Grade examination system in favour of the Higher Still system , using Access 3 , Intermediate 1 and Intermediate 2 for pupils in third and fourth year , while maintaining Highers in fifth year and Advanced Highers in sixth year . The school roll was 1784 as of September 2011 . 

 Furthermore , Giffnock has a library and three primary schools : Giffnock Primary School , Braidbar Primary school and Robslee Primary School , non @-@ denominational feeder primary schools for Woodfarm High School . 


 = = Culture and community = = 



 = = = Religion = = = 


 Until the end of the nineteenth century , Giffnock had no church buildings , and religious meetings took place in the waiting room of Giffnock Railway Station and , later , in the clubhouse at Eastwood Golf Course . Orchardhill Parish Church , designed by HE Clifford and completed in 1899 , was the first church built within Giffnock . Now a category B listed building , the Church is built in a Gothic revival style of architecture and is built mainly of locally quarried stone . Also located in Giffnock is Giffnock Synagogue , founded in 1938 and home to the largest Jewish religious congregation in Scotland . 


 = = = Recreation = = = 


 In 1936 the Tudor Cinema was constructed in Giffnock by Alex Frutin . It opened in December as a " superb suburban cinema " . The Tudor was an Art Deco style building and is considered Glasgow 's first " entertainment complex " , featuring a ballroom and restaurant as well as the 2 @,@ 400 @-@ seat cinema . 

 Giffnock has numerous parks , including Rouken Glen , Huntly Park and Eastwood Park , where the East Renfrewshire Council offices are based . There remains some ancient woodland in Giffnock , which could be as old as 8 @,@ 000 years . 

 The lands of Rouken Glen Park originally belonged to the Scottish Crown . Ownership shifted to the Earl of Eglinton when James V presented the land to Hugh Montgomerie , 1st Earl of Eglinton on the marriage of his son in 1530 . The area of the estate was farmed until the end of the 18th century and , in 1858 , the estate was purchased by local merchant Walter Crum . Alexander Crum inherited the estate in 1879 and is responsible for the layout of Rouken Glen as it is today . On his sudden death in August 1893 , the house passed into the hands of his brother , William Graham Crum , who later sold the estate to Archibald Cameron Corbett , MP ( later Lord Rowallan ) on 19 May 1905 . In 1906 the estate was given to the City of Glasgow by Lord Rowallan , with the provision that it be for the " citizens of Glasgow for all time " . Rouken Glen Park was officially opened on Saturday , 25 May 1906 by Lord Rowallan . 

 Eastwood Park Leisure Centre has a 25 @-@ metre ( 82 ft ) swimming pool , two additional smaller pools and two gyms . Activities in the leisure centre include casual swimming , swimming lessons , pool fun sessions , fitness classes , a sauna and gym sessions . Greenbank Garden , an 18th @-@ century house and garden owned by the National Trust for Scotland , is located between Clarkston and Newton Mearns , near Giffnock . The house has a 2 @.@ 5 acres ( 1 @.@ 0 ha ) walled garden , sixteen rooms and barns and stables . This building is protected as a Category A listed building . 


 = = = Sport = = = 


 One of the United Kingdom 's most successful athletics clubs , Giffnock North AAC , was originally formed as a football club in 1943 . Now they are one of the largest athletics clubs in the United Kingdom and 3 time winner of the Scottish athletics ' Club of the Year ' award . 

 In 1905 the Whitecraigs Golf Club was founded . The course was originally designed by Willie Fernie , who was The Open Championship winner in 1883 and also designed the Ailsa course at Turnberry . Alterations to the course were made in the 1930s by James Braid , who won The Open Championship five times between 1901 and 1910 . 

 Many golfing events have been hosted by the Whitecraigs Golf Club . The club was visited by the United States Ryder Cup teams of 1929 and 1933 . The teams included many golfing legends such as Walter Hagen , Gene Sarazen and Horton Smith . Whitecraigs hosted the World Seniors ' Golf Championship in 1976 . In 1983 , Jack Nicklaus visited the club to play an exhibition match and run a clinic . 

 Whitecraigs Rugby Club is a rugby union team based at Newton Mearns , near Giffnock . As of the 2011 – 2012 season , the team competes in the Scottish Premiership Division A. 


 = = Public services = = 


 Giffnock forms part of the Western water and sewerage regions of Scotland . Waste management is provided by the East Renfrewshire local council . Water supplies are provided by Scottish Water , a government @-@ owned corporation of the Scottish Government . Giffnock 's Distribution Network Operator for electricity is Scottish Power . The NHS board is NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde . Strathclyde Fire and Rescue is the statutory fire and rescue service . The nearest fire station is in the neighbouring settlement of Clarkston 

 Policing in Giffnock is provided by Police Scotland . The Strathclyde Partnership for Transport , a public body in Scotland , has direct operational responsibilities , such as supporting ( and in some cases running ) local bus services and managing integrated ticketing in Giffnock and other areas from the former Strathclyde region . Transport Scotland manages the local rail network . 


 = = Notable people = = 


 Gordon Brown , politician and former Prime Minister 

 Aiden McGeady , Ireland international footballer 

 Andrew Robertson , Scotland international footballer 

 Calum Gallagher , footballer 



 = Sheriff Hill = 


 Sheriff Hill is a suburb in the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead in Tyne and Wear , England . It lies on the B1296 road 2 miles ( 3 @.@ 2 km ) south of Gateshead , 2 @.@ 5 miles ( 4 @.@ 0 km ) south of Newcastle upon Tyne and 12 miles ( 19 km ) north of the historic city of Durham . According to the 2001 UK census it had a population of 5 @,@ 051 . 

 Historically part of Gateshead Fell in County Durham , Sheriff Hill was the site of a battle between William the Conqueror and Malcolm III of Scotland in 1068 . A road was built through Gateshead Fell in the early 13th century , attracting some settlers . A procession of bishops , sheriffs and noblemen known as the Sheriff 's March took place on the road in 1282 and continued biannually until the 1830s . By then , Gateshead Fell had been enclosed and a village had grown around the road , largely populated by an influx of tinkers , coalminers working at Sheriff Hill Colliery and workers at the local pottery , mill and sandstone quarry . By the turn of the 20th century these industries were in steep decline . The local authority built a large council estate at Sheriff Hill to alleviate dangerous overcrowding in Gateshead , effectively turning the area into a residential suburb . It ceased to be an independent village on 1 April 1974 when it was incorporated into the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead under the terms of the Local Government Act 1972 . 

 Now part of the local council ward of High Fell , the suburb is economically disadvantaged compared with other areas of the borough and nationally , with high levels of unemployment . Sheriff Hill was the site of one of Gateshead 's largest boarding schools but as of 2012 , the only remaining educational establishment is Glynwood Primary School . The suburb also contains the Queen Elizabeth Hospital – the largest hospital in Gateshead , a small dene and a small park . The principal landmark is St John the Evangelist Church , one of three Grade II listed buildings in the area and one of two remaining churches . The southern end of Sheriff 's Highway – the main road through the suburb , is more than 500 feet ( 150 m ) above sea level , making it the highest point in Gateshead . 


 = = History = = 



 = = = Early history = = = 


 Until the 19th century , Sheriff Hill was part of Gateshead Fell , a " windswept , barren and treacherous heath " that took its name from the town of Gateshead and the fell or common land contiguous with it . In 1068 , Malcolm III of Scotland marched across the Scottish border to challenge the authority of William the Conqueror . Malcolm , accompanied by native insurgents and foreign supporters , was met by William 's men in the area of Sheriff Hill and was decisively beaten . In the 13th century , a road through Gateshead Fell became the main trade route between Durham and Newcastle and as its importance grew , two public houses – the Old Cannon and The Three Tuns , were built along with a small number of houses . 

 The settlement 's name derives from the Sheriff 's March ; an ancient , biannual procession first held in 1278 . An inquisition at Tynemouth declared that the King of Scotland , the Archbishop of York , the Prior of Tynemouth , the Bishop of Durham and Gilbert de Umfraville , Earl of Angus should meet the justices before they entered Newcastle from the south . A procession was held before the meeting ; on the appointed day the procession started in Newcastle , crossed the River Tyne to Gateshead and made its way up the steep road . The meeting place was initially at Chile Well but subsequently the procession came to " light and go into the house " . The house was the Old Cannon public house , where drink was served at the sheriff 's expense . When the judges arrived , the procession returned to Newcastle . 

 In 1647 , Gateshead Fell was surveyed and was found to consist of 1 @,@ 300 acres ( 530 ha ) of land . A number of small , isolated settlements had developed around the road at modern @-@ day Deckham , Wrekenton , Low Fell and Sheriff Hill . The few cottages and properties at Sheriff Hill were of such poor quality that in 1713 , the total of ninety @-@ one cottages returned only £ 8 9s 6d in rent . The rental rate declined over the years and eventually , poverty rates were so high that several tenants paid no rent . The houses were extremely unappealing ; many were essentially mud huts – earth mounds carved into dwellings and roofed with sod . The length of the road that ran through Sheriff Hill was called Sodhouse Bank . By the middle of the 18th century , the area had become a wild and frightening place and when theologian John Wesley arrived in 1785 , he found a " pathless waste of white " . 


 = = = Industrial growth and enclosure = = = 


 The road through Gateshead Fell was turnpiked by the Durham to Tyne Bridge Road Act in 1747 . Although it had brought some early settlers to the area , the development of industry allowed the formative settlement to grow . In 1740 , John Warburton opened a pottery at Carr Hill which is credited with introducing white earthenware to Tyneside . Encouraged by Warburton 's success , Paul Jackson established the Sheriff Hill Pottery in 1771 at the northern end of the turnpike road and by 1775 was advertising his earthenware in the Newcastle Journal . Jackson 's pottery , which became a local centre of pottery production , attracted settlers to the area and became a source of pride to local residents . 

 In 1793 , Sheriff Hill Colliery , or " Ellison Main Colliery " , opened at the summit of Gateshead Fell on the boundary between Sheriff Hill and Low Fell . The colliery had two shafts – the Fanny and Isabella Pits – and provided employment for over 100 men and boys . In 1809 , an Act ordered the enclosure of Gateshead Fell . Commissioners were appointed to settle claims and apportion Gateshead Fell accordingly . Plans were laid for the requisition and construction of wells , quarries , drains , roads and watering places – including a well at Blue Quarries . New roads , today known as Blue Quarries Road , Church Road and Windy Nook Road , were built . The last allotment land disputes were settled in 1830 and Gateshead Fell was entirely enclosed , formally creating the villages of Sheriff Hill , Low Fell , Deckham , Carr Hill and Wrekenton . After the enclosure , Sheriff Hill was a rural settlement before becoming a village . 

 In 1819 , an explosion tore through the Sheriff Hill Colliery killing thirty @-@ five people . Other industries were flourishing in the area ; in 1823 " Heworth Windmill " or " Snowden 's Mill " , a gristmill worked by around thirty employees , was built and " Blue Quarries " , a sandstone quarry , was opened in 1820 and provided employment for stonemasons , quarrymen and their apprentices . While not as extensive as Kell 's Quarries at Windy Nook , Blue Quarries produced " Newcastle Grindstones " of excellent quality and world renown . 


 = = = Modern history = = = 


 By the turn of the 20th century , the industries at Sheriff Hill were in decline . In the 1890s the Old Mill closed , as did Sheriff Hill Pottery in 1909 . In the 1920s Blue Quarries was filled in and Sheriff Hill Colliery , the longest surviving industrial operation , closed in 1926 . The only surviving reminders of the suburb 's industrial past are street names such as " Pottersway " and " Blue Quarries Road " . 

 The industries that had disappeared were replaced by tracts of housing . While most of the sod cottages were torn down after enclosure , the remaining dwellings were in such poor condition that in 1883 , Gateshead 's Medical Health Officer described their standard as one of abject squalor . Some private housing estates were built in Sheriff Hill around 1900 , including the Egremont Estate – a distinctive estate dating from around 1910 where the houses have flat roofs with steps leading to them as an architectural feature , and also at Sourmilk Hill , where there are some irregularly arranged vernacular houses built from locally quarried stone and slate which give the area " the character of a small , rural farmstead " . These developments did little to alleviate the unsanitary conditions and the chronic overcrowding in the village and across the borough . In light of these problems Gateshead Council , after having previously refused in 1911 and 1917 , decided to purchase 65 acres ( 26 ha ) of land in Carr Hill and Sheriff Hill under the Housing Act 1919 at a cost of £ 19 @,@ 000 in February 1919 . 

 This led to the building of the first council housing estate in Gateshead . Alderman Hodkin laid the foundation stone on 27 October 1920 ; as work commenced the Alderman demonstrated the authority 's concerns , telling the local newspaper that : " we can build houses , but we cannot build homes . Only the people themselves can do that and I hope that the spirit of ‘ esprit de corps ’ will prevail and this will be a model estate " Demand was high – there were 427 applicants for the first twenty eight houses built – and the council built further tracts of housing in a broad triangle between Sodhouse Bank , Ermine Crescent and The Avenue , although central government withdrew its promised funding . By 1936 , most of the social housing available as of 2012 was in existence and provides accommodation to over half of the population of the suburb . 

 Sheriff Hill is now a residential suburb of Gateshead ; in 1974 it was incorporated into the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead by the implementation of the Local Government Act 1972 , before which it was considered part of County Durham . It is bordered by Low Fell to the west , Deckham to the north , Beacon Lough to the south and Windy Nook and Carr Hill to the east . 


 = = Government = = 


 Sheriff Hill comprises part of the High Fell council ward of the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead . The ward covers approximately 2 square kilometres ( 0 @.@ 77 sq mi ) , has a population of 8 @,@ 952 , and is represented on Gateshead Council by three councillors . 

 Sheriff Hill is represented in Parliament as part of the Gateshead constituency ; the sitting Member of Parliament ( MP ) is Labour representative Ian Mearns , who was elected at the May 2010 general election with a majority of 12 @,@ 549 votes over Liberal Democrat Frank Hindle . The swing from Labour to the Liberal Democrats was 3 @.@ 9 % . 

 Before May 2010 , the area was part of the Gateshead East and Washington West constituency , which was abolished in that year 's boundary changes . The MP for Gateshead East and Washington West from 2005 to 2010 was Sharon Hodgson , who campaigned in the newly formed constituency of Washington and Sunderland West . Hodgson succeeded Joyce Quin , who retired on 11 April 2005 . 

 Sheriff Hill is part of the North East England constituency of the European Parliament , which elects three MEPs to the parliament in Brussels . As of 2009 , the constituency 's MEPs are Stephen Hughesn of the Labour Party , Martin Callanan of the Conservative Party and Fiona Hall of the Liberal Democrats . 


 = = Geography and topography = = 


 Sheriff Hill is 2 miles ( 3 @.@ 2 km ) south of Gateshead town centre and 255 miles ( 410 km ) from London . The underlying geology is predominantly sandstone , grindstone and clay . At the southern end of the suburb the land reaches an elevation of over 500 feet ( 150 m ) above sea level , which is the highest point in the borough . In 1829 , the view of Newcastle and the River Tyne from the hill was said to be " uncommonly grand " and it inspired local artist Thomas Miles Richardson to paint his first notable picture , " View of Newcastle from Gateshead Fell " in 1816 . In spite of the extensive rebuilding in the 20th century , the natural topography still affords panoramic views , particularly to the east towards the coast and north as far as the Cheviot Hills , from several vantage points . 


 = = = Climate = = = 


 Sheriff Hill , in common with much of the north east of England , has a temperate climate . The mean highest temperature is 12 @.@ 8 ° C ( 55 @.@ 0 ° F ) , which is slightly lower than the England average of 13 @.@ 1 ° C ( 55 @.@ 6 ° F ) . The mean lowest temperature , 7 @.@ 2 ° C ( 45 @.@ 0 ° F ) , is somewhat higher than the England average of 5 @.@ 6 ° C ( 42 @.@ 1 ° F ) . The total annual rainfall is 643 @.@ 1 millimetres ( 25 @.@ 32 in ) , significantly lower than the national average for England of 838 @.@ 7 millimetres ( 33 @.@ 02 in ) . 


 = = Demography = = 


 According to the United Kingdom Census 2001 , Sheriff Hill has a population of 5 @,@ 051 – 53 % of whom are female , slightly above the national average , and 47 % are male . 2 @.@ 5 % of the population are from a Black or other Minority Ethnic Group ( BME ) , compared to 9 @.@ 1 % of the national population . Of the BME group , 41 % are from the Asian or Asian – British ethnic group . 

 18 @.@ 9 % of all households are single @-@ parent households , the fifth highest proportion in Gateshead compared with the Gateshead average of 11 @.@ 5 % and the UK average of 9 @.@ 5 % . 32 @.@ 1 % of households have dependent children , compared with 29 @.@ 5 % nationally and 28 @.@ 4 % in Gateshead . The Index of Multiple Deprivation , which divides England into 32 @,@ 482 areas and considers quality of life indicators to measure deprivation , splits Sheriff Hill into two areas , one of which was in the top five percent of deprived areas in England in 2007 . 

 Sheriff Hill compares unfavourably with the wider Gateshead area in respect of adults with educational qualifications . 50 @.@ 7 % of adults in the suburb have no educational qualifications , compared with 38 @.@ 4 % across Gateshead and with the England average of 28 @.@ 9 % . 25 @.@ 2 % of adults have five or more GCSEs or equivalent at grades A * to C compared with 46 @.@ 6 % across England , and 11 @.@ 5 % of adults in the suburb have two or more A @-@ Levels or equivalent compared with the England average of 28 @.@ 2 % and 18 @.@ 6 % across Gateshead . 


 = = = Religion = = = 


 According to the 2001 UK census , 82 @.@ 7 % of residents in Sheriff Hill describe themselves as Christian . This is marginally higher than the regional average of 80 @.@ 1 % and substantially higher than the national average of 71 @.@ 7 % . The second most prevalent religion is Islam ; some 0 @.@ 57 % of residents identify as Muslim . Around 0 @.@ 1 % identify as Buddhist and the same proportion identify as Jewish . Just 0 @.@ 05 % identify as Hindu . All of these figures are below the national average . Of the remaining residents , 0 @.@ 1 % adhere to a religion other than those stated , 11 @.@ 2 % have " no religion " and 5 @.@ 1 % did not state any religion . 

 There are two churches in the suburb today . The Anglican Church of St John is located in Church Road and the Sheriff Hill Methodist Church , a member of United Methodist Free Churches , is located at the junction of Kells Lane and Sheriff 's Highway and is shown on the 1939 ordnance survey maps . It is a modern , brick building of semi @-@ circular design . 


 = = Economy = = 


 While the original settlement at Sheriff Hill developed through the growth of industry in the area , the suburb today is predominantly residential with no significant industry . The suburb was once considered affluent , but as of 2012 , almost half of the working age population are economically inactive and less than half of households own a car . The area has than higher levels of unemployment in comparison with Gateshead and England : at Broadway , Pottersway and the Avenue , only 23 @.@ 8 % of adults have full @-@ time employment and 10 @.@ 09 % have part @-@ time jobs . Around 3 @.@ 1 % of the population are self @-@ employed . Those in employment work outside the area , except those employed in the suburb 's public houses , betting shops or fast @-@ food outlets . Other small shops provide some local employment , but few are open for any length of time as they cannot compete with larger retailers elsewhere in Gateshead . 


 = = Health = = 


 Sheriff Hill was once the site of a lunatic asylum , which was opened in the 1830s and situated on Sour Milk Hill Lane . Sheriff Hill Lunatic Asylum tended 86 patients in 1844 and continued to attract admissions until its closure in 1860 . Soon after , work began on a 38 – bed isolation hospital at what is today Queen Elizabeth Avenue . The first building was completed in 1878 and others were added later . The 4 @-@ acre ( 1 @.@ 6 ha ) site was enclosed by a large stone wall tipped with barbed wire and broken glass , and by 1903 the hospital comprised a main block with an administrative building in the centre with a ward block on each side , another three @-@ ward block , a porter 's lodge , a steam disinfecting building , a laundry and a mortuary . The hospital had a maximum capacity of 78 patients , who were tended by two resident doctors and 10 nurses . 

 During the period 1918 to 1939 , the isolation hospital remained the sole medical provision in Sheriff Hill . Faced with an increase in population , Gateshead Council decided that a new general hospital should be built . In March 1938 , preliminary work started on the Queen Elizabeth Hospital on the site of the isolation hospital ; the foundations were laid in 1939 but the outbreak of World War II delayed the building work . The new hospital was opened by Queen Elizabeth , wife of King George VI , on 18 March 1948 . It is the largest hospital in Gateshead and has since been expanded , most notably with the opening of the North East NHS Surgery Centre in 2008 , which cost £ 13 @.@ 3 million . 

 According to official data , Sheriff Hill residents experience comparatively poor health ; 13 @.@ 7 % of the adult population are considered clinically obese , around 38 % of adults smoke compared with the UK average of 25 @.@ 9 % of adults , and 37 % of adults are binge drinkers . The average life expectancy for men is 77 @.@ 9 years , the same as the UK average , but for women is 78 years ; four years below the UK national average . 


 = = Education = = 


 In 1875 , Sheriff Hill Board School was opened on Church Road . The school was open to pupils aged 5 to14 , and the curriculum focused upon " the three Rs " and included some other subjects such as needlework and biblical instruction . Attendance was compulsory but truancy was rife – such was the scale of the problem that prizes and awards were presented to encourage attendance . The school closed in 1947 and was replaced by Glynwood Primary School and Ennerdale Junior School , which were opened by Alderman Grant on 28 November 1953 after a dedication by the Rector of Gateshead . 

 Situated on Glynwood Gardens and Southend Road , the schools were later merged ; Glynwood School survives as the sole educational establishment in Sheriff Hill . As of 2010 , the school is larger than average and the proportion of children entitled to and claiming free school meals is well above the UK average . The pupils at Key Stage 1 and Key Stage 2 are taught subjects from the National Curriculum and achievement is broadly inline with the national average . After inspecting the school in 2010 , OFSTED found it to be a " good " school and praised it for the high quality of teaching and for generating a positive and caring learning environment for pupils . 


 = = Leisure and recreation = = 


 Hodkin Park , at Sheriff 's Highway , is one of many small parks in Gateshead . It is named in honour of Alderman Daniel Hodkin , Gateshead 's deputy mayor in 1920 and a member of the Housing Committee which built council housing at Sheriff Hill . Hodkin Park was locally listed by Gateshead Council in 2004 in recognition of its significance to the local community . At the northern end of Sheriff 's Highway there is a dene , shown as the " Quarry Plantation " on Ordnance Survey maps of 1858 . In 2005 , Gateshead Council carried out maintenance work on the dene , including the pruning of shrubbery and the installation of several sets of steps , to encourage residents to use the area . 

 Sheriff Hill contains several public houses because of its origin as a mining village with a population of tinkers , and because before Durham Road through Low Fell was opened in 1827 , Sodhouse Bank ( now Sheriff 's Highway ) was the route to the Great North Road . The Old Cannon , at the northern end of Sheriff 's Highway , has existed since medieval times and its present name has been used since 1782 , and possibly earlier . The Three Tuns , which is listed in trade directories in 1778 , was the social hub of Sheriff Hill in the 19th century and used by miners and quarrymen , who engaged in cock fighting and cuddy races – informal races between pit donkeys where bets were placed – on open ground in Kells Lane . In 1867 it was the scene of a reception to celebrate the passing of Lord Russell 's Reform Act , and reform meetings and benefit societies were subsequently held there . In recent times it has hosted a number of niche events , including an international pie festival in 2010 and an international sausage festival in 2011 . Both the Old Cannon and The Three Tuns were locally listed by Gateshead Council in 2004 . Other public houses in Sheriff Hill include the Queens Head , listed in trade directories since 1848 , ( which as of 2016 is being converted into a 14 bedroom property ) and the Travellers Rest , which was once called the " Golden Quiot " . 

 Sheriff Hill Methodist Church plays an important social role in the community ; it has hosted biannual jumble sales for many years and an annual Christmas Fayre is held at the church to mark the start of Christmas in Sheriff Hill . 


 = = Landmarks = = 


 Part of Sheriff Hill was designated a Conservation Area in 1999 . The suburb has three Grade II listed buildings . The Church of St John was conceived in 1809 when an Enclosure Act decreed that a church be built on Gateshead Fell . The church was completed on 30 August 1825 at a cost of £ 2742 . The church is a neat , plain , Gothic structure built from ashlar and slate , and was Grade II listed in 1950 . The principal features are the tower and spire , which rise to 148 feet ( 45 m ) . Coupled with the natural terrain of the land , the top of the spire reaches over 500 feet ( 150 m ) above sea level , making it the highest point in the metropolitan borough and one of the highest churches in England ; it is visible for several miles in all directions , making it a prominent landmark and sea mark . 

 Field House on Windy Nook Road was built in the 19th century in rubble stone and Welsh slate . It has been described as a remnant of Sheriff Hill 's rural past and was listed on 13 January 1983 . Thornlea on Church Road is one of the oldest buildings in the suburb . It is built in stone ashlar with a low hipped slate roof and the doorpiece has two intact Greek Ionic columns . Much of the original grounds have survived intact , as have the original walls of locally quarried stone . It was listed on 13 January 1988 . Additionally , Sheriff Hill has ten locally listed buildings . These are the Zion Methodist Chapel , six stone cottages at Sheriff 's Highway , The Three Tuns and Old Cannon public houses , and houses at 13 – 14 Egremont Drive . 

 The elevation of Sheriff Hill affords dramatic views of the surrounding landscape across the Team Valley to the west and the Cheviot Hills to the north . 


 = = Transport = = 


 Sheriff Hill is situated on the B1296 Old Durham Road , a wide and busy route that was formerly an alignment of the Great North Road , which was diverted through Low Fell . The section of Old Durham Road that traverses the suburb is called Sheriff 's Highway . The journey time to Gateshead town centre by car or bus is approximately ten minutes , and approximately fifteen minutes to the centre of Newcastle upon Tyne . − 

 The nearest mainline railway station is Newcastle Central Station , 3 miles ( 4 @.@ 8 km ) away . The nearest airport is Newcastle International Airport , 7 @.@ 9 miles ( 12 @.@ 7 km ) away . 

 Sheriff Hill is served by several bus services , including Waggonway 28 , the Fab 56 which continues into Sunderland and the Fab 57 , which terminates at the Ellen Wilkinson Estate and is part of the 93 / 94 Loop network . All buses serving Sheriff Hill are operated by Go North East under the administration of Tyne and Wear Passenger Transport Executive , known as " Nexus " . 


 = = Public services = = 


 Home Office policing in Sheriff Hill is provided by Northumbria Police ; the nearest police station is at High West Street , Gateshead . Statutory emergency fire and rescue service is provided by the Tyne and Wear Fire and Rescue Service and Sheriff Hill is served by the Gateshead East station on Dryden Road in Low Fell . Health provision is provided by the Queen Elizabeth Hospital , which is a National Health Service ( NHS ) hospital administered by the Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust . The area is served by an ambulance station adjacent to the hospital on Old Durham Road and ambulance services are provided by the North East Ambulance Service . 

 Public transport services are co @-@ ordinated by the Tyne and Wear Passenger Transport Executive . Waste management is co @-@ ordinated by the local authority , Gateshead Council , which provides refuse collections , which became fortnightly in March 2012 . Sheriff Hill 's Distribution Network Operator for electricity is Northern Powergrid . Northumbrian Water supplies drinking water , which is sourced from Kielder Reservoir , and also has responsibility for waste water services . 



 = Carolina in My Mind = 


 " Carolina in My Mind " is a song written and performed by singer @-@ songwriter James Taylor , which first appeared on his 1968 self @-@ titled debut album . Taylor wrote it while overseas recording for the Beatles ' label Apple Records , and the song 's themes reflect his homesickness at the time . Released as a single , the song earned critical praise but not commercial success . It was re @-@ recorded for Taylor 's 1976 Greatest Hits album in the version that is most familiar to listeners . It has been a staple of Taylor 's concert performances over the decades of his career . 

 The song was a modest hit on the country charts in 1969 for North Carolinian singer George Hamilton IV . Strongly tied to a sense of geographic place , " Carolina in My Mind " has been called an unofficial state anthem for North Carolina . It is also an unofficial song of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill , being played at athletic events and pep rallies and sung by the graduating class at every university commencement . The association of the song with the state is also made in written works of both fiction and non @-@ fiction . It has become one of Taylor 's most critically praised songs and one that has great popularity and significance for his audience . 


 = = Song and recordings = = 


 The song references Taylor 's years growing up in North Carolina . Taylor wrote it while overseas recording for the Beatles ' label Apple Records . He started writing the song at producer Peter Asher 's London flat on Marylebone High Street , resumed work on it while on holiday on the Mediterranean island of Formentera , and then completed it while stranded on the nearby island of Ibiza with Karin , a Swedish girl he had just met . The song reflects Taylor 's homesickness at the time , as he was missing his family , his dog and his state . 

 The original recording of the song was done at London 's Trident Studios during the July to October 1968 period , and was produced by Asher . The song 's lyric " holy host of others standing around me " makes reference to the Beatles , who were recording The Beatles in the same studio where Taylor was recording his album . Indeed , the recording of " Carolina in My Mind " featured a credited appearance by Paul McCartney on bass guitar and an uncredited one by George Harrison on backing vocals . The other players were Freddie Redd on organ , Joel " Bishop " O 'Brien on drums , and Mick Wayne providing a second guitar alongside Taylor 's . Taylor and Asher also did backing vocals and Asher added a tambourine . Richard Hewson arranged and conducted a string part ; an even more ambitious 30 @-@ piece orchestra part was recorded but not used . The song itself earned critical praise , with Jon Landau 's April 1969 review for Rolling Stone calling it " beautiful " and one of the " two most deeply affecting cuts " on the album and praising McCartney 's bass playing as " extraordinary " . Taylor biographer Timothy White calls the song " the album 's quiet masterpiece . " 

 The song was first released on Taylor 's eponymous debut album in December 1968 ( February 1969 in the United States ) , and was later released as a single in the UK in February 1969 and in the United States in March 1969 . However , owing to the same problems which plagued the release of the album ( namely , Taylor 's inability to promote it due to his hospitalization for drug addiction ) , the single 's original release reached only No. 118 on US pop charts and failed to chart in the UK . Indeed , Taylor had fallen back into addiction during the London recording sessions , and his line about being surrounded by Beatles had been immediately followed by " Still I 'm on the dark side of the moon . " Following the success of Taylor 's second album , Sweet Baby James , and its hit single " Fire and Rain " , " Carolina in My Mind " was reissued by Apple as a single in October 1970 and rose to No. 67 on the U.S. charts . ( A previously unreleased acoustic demo of " Carolina in My Mind " was issued as a bonus track on the 2010 Apple Records remastering of James Taylor . ) 

 Different versions of both this song and " Something in the Way She Moves " were remade by Taylor for use on his 1976 Greatest Hits album because of the difficulty of obtaining licensing rights from Apple during the 1970s and because of uncertainty about where the Apple masters were . The new recordings were done in October 1976 at The Sound Factory in Los Angeles and production was again done by Peter Asher . 

 This rendition of " Carolina in My Mind " had a slower tempo than the original , and accompanying Taylor on acoustic guitar were experienced LA session musicians Dan Dugmore on pedal steel ( highlighted in the descending note sequences at the song 's conclusion ) , Lee Sklar on bass , Russ Kunkel on drums , Clarence McDonald on piano , Andrew Gold on harmonium , and Byron Berline on fiddle . Backing vocals were handled by Gold and Taylor . Greatest Hits became a diamond record , selling more than 11 million copies in the United States by 2001 , and this is the version of " Carolina in My Mind " that became best known . The remake earned even more critical praise than the original . Bill Janovitz of Allmusic said of the 1976 recording that it " accent [ ed ] the languid , plaintive and wistful country melancholy of the song , " while in the 1979 Rolling Stone Record Guide , critic Stephen Holden said that the " stunning " remake showed how much Taylor 's singing had strengthened in the intervening years . Biographer White believed that the song benefited from the removal of the original 's orchestration . 

 The 1976 re @-@ recording was also included on Taylor 's 2003 compilation The Best of James Taylor . 


 = = Later appearances = = 


 " Carolina in My Mind " became a staple of Taylor 's concert repertoire , appearing in the set list of virtually every Taylor tour . A 1992 performance of it was included near the end of Taylor 's first live album , 1993 's Live . The audience reaction demonstrates that the song has great popularity despite never being a hit single : there is immediate cheering as the first notes are picked out on Taylor 's acoustic guitar , and further cheering as soon as he starts to sing . By this era Taylor 's always @-@ excellent touring band was using four backing singers . Arnold McCuller , David Lasley , Kate Markowitz , and Valerie Carter featured strongly in the arrangement , continuing the emphasis on the song 's harmonies that had begun with the 1976 remake . Their part was especially prominent in the concluding refrains as the final words , " in my mind " , were prolonged for emphasis at the end of the song : i @-@ i @-@ i @-@ i @-@ in my mind . 

 The song has been included in a number of Taylor 's concert video releases , including 1980 's James Taylor : In Concert at the Blossom Music Center , 1988 's James Taylor : In Concert at Boston 's Colonial Theatre , and 2002 's Pull Over . It was performed in collaboration with the Dixie Chicks in 2002 for the CMT Crossroads program . In 2004 , Taylor and the Chicks again performed the song together during the Vote for Change tour , with Taylor dedicating it to former North Carolina Senator and U.S. vice @-@ presidential candidate John Edwards . On the 2006 A Musicares Person of the Year Tribute Honoring James Taylor tribute show and video release , " Carolina in My Mind " was performed by Alison Krauss and Jerry Douglas . The song was then included in Taylor 's 2006 – 2007 One Man Band Tour ; accompanied only by Larry Goldings on piano and harmonium , Taylor introduced the song with visual material and by relating its composition on Formentera and other locations . He talked about the Karin of the lyrics , whom he had known only briefly and never seen since , and related various humorous notions about how to find her again . One such performance was documented on the 2007 album and video release One Man Band . Another live performance appeared on Taylor 's 2010 live CD / DVD combo release with Carole King , Live at The Troubadour . James Taylor appeared on The Colbert Report on January 19 , 2012 , and sang " Carolina in My Mind " along with Stephen Colbert , and then performed it on the final day of the 2012 Democratic National Convention in Charlotte , North Carolina , where he greeted " fellow Tar Heels and Democrats " . 


 = = Other versions = = 


 While " Carolina in My Mind " did not gain much attention from the public upon its original release , it did from other artists . It was a No. 29 hit on the American country charts and No. 3 hit in Canada in 1969 for North Carolinian singer George Hamilton IV . The Everly Brothers also released it as a single in 1969 , under the variant title " Carolina on My Mind " , but it failed to chart ; this was later collected on their 1994 box set Heartaches and Harmonies . Evie Sands also touched upon it in her 1969 album Any Way That You Want Me . 

 The song was recorded by Melanie on her hit April 1970 album Candles in the Rain ; the arrangement and vocal phrasing are different from Taylor 's , and Allmusic writes that her version " exist [ s ] on an entirely separate plane from the original " . It was also recorded in more conventional folk rock form by John Denver on his May 1970 album Take Me to Tomorrow . Philadelphia @-@ based pop group Crystal Mansion released a version in October 1970 that reached No. 73 on the U.S. pop singles chart . Dawn included a version of it on their 1970 debut album Candida . About the same time , Glen Campbell was performing the song as a sped @-@ up country duet with Linda Ronstadt on his popular television series The Glen Campbell Goodtime Hour ; this was later collected on his 2007 video release Good Times Again . 

 The song subsequently became so identified with Taylor that other artists recorded it less frequently , but still by the late 2000s there were some 60 albums ( including compilation reappearances and albums from Taylor himself ) that featured it . 


 = = Sense of place = = 


 " Carolina in My Mind " is strongly associated with its geographical place and has been called an unofficial state anthem of North Carolina . Taylor had grown up in Carrboro , outside Chapel Hill , where his father taught at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine . Taylor later reflected : " Chapel Hill , the piedmont , the outlying hills , were tranquil , rural , beautiful , but quiet . Thinking of the red soil , the seasons , the way things smelled down there , I feel as though my experience of coming of age there was more a matter of landscape and climate than people . " More broadly , the song has been associated with The South . Author James L. Peacock sees it akin to Stephen Foster 's " My Old Kentucky Home " and other songs and works of literature in establishing " the South 's sense of place " , even if that sense is sometimes an exercise in projected nostalgia . Author Ken Emerson also sees a connection to that quintessential American songwriter , with the Taylor song resembling Foster 's " Sitting By My Own Cabin Door " in its sense of longing for home amid personal and contextual dislocation . Recognizing the association with the state , the Chapel Hill Museum opened an ongoing exhibit " Carolina in My Mind : The James Taylor Story " in 2003 that includes memorabilia from Taylor 's years in the area and a video documentary . 

 " Carolina in My Mind " is also an unofficial song of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill . It is played at athletic events and pep rallies , and is sung by the graduating class at every university graduation . In October 2006 , Taylor returned to the campus to receive the school 's Carolina Performing Arts Lifetime Achievement Award . University chancellor James Moeser said to Taylor , " We love you . We love what you do and how you represent this university . " Taylor said , " It 's strange but somehow compelling to come home and sing it . It draws a line through my own personal history and connects me again to a place that I go to in my dreams , a landscape that will forever be a part of me . " The song is also frequently covered by popular UNC campus a cappella groups , including the Clef Hangers . The Clef Hangers ' Fall Concert 2007 performances of the song featured future American Idol season 8 finalist Anoop Desai handling the lead vocal on the closing part of the song . The Clef Hangers , joined by university chancellor Holden Thorp , again performed it in March 2009 at the first anniversary memorial service for murdered student president Eve Carson . 

 The 82nd Airborne Division of the United States Army , stationed at Fort Bragg in North Carolina , sponsors a group of singing soldiers known as the 82nd Airborne Division All @-@ American Chorus . They recorded a version of the song on their 2009 album A Soldier 's Heart . 

 Some of the song 's lyrics are used as an epigraph in the 2001 Celebrate the States series volume on North Carolina and in the 1983 reference book America the Quotable . News providers have used " Carolina in My Mind " as a title for stories about the state 's politics , economy , and outdoor activities . The song 's geographical association also appears in fiction , including in Carly Alexander 's 2004 novel The Eggnog Chronicles and North Carolinian Sharyn McCrumb 's 2006 novel St. Dale . 

 Although it was North Carolina that inspired the song , it is popular in South Carolina too , tying for first place on a South Carolina Information Highway 's construction of a soundtrack regarding the state . It has been used as the theme for the television coverage of the annual Family Circle Cup tennis event in South Carolina . 

 " Carolina in My Mind " is also popular among the Carolinian diaspora ; prize @-@ winning North Carolinian writer Jill McCorkle , living in Massachusetts , refers to it as " the chosen anthem of misplaced Carolinians . " In Kathy Reichs ' initial Temperance Brennan novel , Déjà Dead , the protagonist ( like the author ) is from North Carolina but working in Montreal as a forensic anthropologist , and alludes to the song as part of a Carolinian reverie in the midst of a horrid murder case . One person who had moved to California said , " Still to this day I get nostalgic whenever I hear it on the radio . It 's a song that makes anyone who grew up in North Carolina homesick . In a way , it 's become an anthem song for people who left the state . " 



 = Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... = 


 Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... ( English : Sometimes there 's Happiness , Sometimes there 's Sorrow ) , also known as K3G , is a 2001 Indian drama film written and directed by Karan Johar and produced by his father , Yash Johar . Written specifically to evoke nostalgia among the expatriate Indian audiences , the film stars Amitabh Bachchan , Jaya Bachchan , Shah Rukh Khan , Kajol , Hrithik Roshan and Kareena Kapoor in leading roles , with Rani Mukerji appearing in an extended cameo appearance . The music was composed by Jatin Lalit , Sandesh Shandilya and Aadesh Shrivastava , with lyrics penned by Sameer and Anil Pandey . The background score was composed by Babloo Chakravarty . The film tells the story of an Indian family , which faces troubles and misunderstandings over their adopted son 's marriage to a girl belonging to a lower socio @-@ economic group than them . 

 Development of the film began in 1998 , soon after the release of Karan 's debut film Kuch Kuch Hota Hai ( 1998 ) . Principal photography began on 16 October 2000 in Mumbai and continued in London and Egypt . Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... was promoted with the tag @-@ line " It 's All About Loving Your Parents " . Initially scheduled to release during the Diwali festivities of 2001 , the film eventually released in India , United Kingdom and North America on 14 December 2001 . In 2003 , it became the first Indian film to be given a theatrical release in Germany . Upon release , the film met with mixed reviews from film critics and received polarising reactions to Karan Johar 's " larger @-@ than @-@ life " directorial style , some seeing it as an " oddly hollow film " . 

 Made on a budget of ₹ 400 million ( US $ 5 @.@ 9 million ) , Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... emerged as a major commercial success , both domestically and internationally , with a lifetime gross of ₹ 1 @.@ 35 billion ( US $ 20 million ) . Outside India , the film was the highest grossing Indian film ever , until its record was broken by Karan 's next directorial , Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna ( 2006 ) . Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... won several awards at popular award ceremonies the following year , including five Filmfare Awards . 


 = = Plot = = 


 Yashvardhan " Yash " Raichand ( Amitabh Bachchan ) is a rich businessman living in India with his wife Nandini ( Jaya Bachchan ) and two sons Rahul and Rohan . Rahul is the elder son and was adopted by Yash and Nandini at birth . This is known to everyone in the Raichand household , except Rohan . When grown up , Rahul ( Shahrukh Khan ) comes across the vivacious Punjabi @-@ speaking Anjali Sharma ( Kajol ) , and they eventually fall in love , but their love is forbidden , because Anjali is from a working @-@ class background . Yash and Nandini soon send Rohan to a Boarding School , which all the males in their family have attended . Yash announces his desire for Rahul to marry Naina ( Rani Mukherji ) , but Naina learns that Rahul is in love with Anjali , and encourages him to pursue her . When Yash comes to know of this , he is enraged , and Rahul promises not to marry Anjali . En route to tell her of his promise , he discovers that her father ( Alok Nath ) has died , and decides to marry her despite his father 's hostility . Yash learns of the marriage and disowns Rahul , whereupon Nandini and Rahul share a tearful goodbye . Nandini sends Sayeeda ( Farida Jalal ) , Rahul and Rohan 's nanny , to watch over him . Rahul visits Rohan in the Boarding School and begs of Rohan never to ask where he went or why he left , and asks that he take care of Nandini . 

 Ten years later , Rohan ( Hrithik Roshan ) returns home from the Boarding School , and learns from his grandmothers ( Achala Sachdev and Sushma Seth ) that Rahul was adopted , and the reason why Rahul left the house , whereupon Rohan vows to reunite the family . He learns that Rahul , Anjali , and her younger sister Pooja moved to London , and tells his parents that he wishes further studies in London , his parents agree to let him go . In London , Rahul is now a wealthy businessman . He and Anjali now have their own son , Krish . Pooja ( Kareena Kapoor ) , now a popular fashion @-@ obsessed diva , is a student at King 's College London . Rohan enrolls there too . He and Pooja meet again and he tells her that he has come to London to bring his brother and sister @-@ in @-@ law back home . Pooja tells Rahul that Rohan is her friend 's brother who currently has nowhere to stay . After some persuasion , Rahul agrees to let Rohan stay . At Krish 's school function , he leads his class in singing the Indian National Anthem , and later recites advice which Rohan had given him . Rahul having given Rohan this advice ten years back , he now realises that Rohan is his brother . 

 Rohan begs Rahul to come home , but he refuses . Pooja convinces Rohan to invite his parents to London ; Rahul and Nandini are overjoyed to see one another , but Rahul still refuses to talk to his father . Soon , Yash learns that his mother is on her death bed , and that her last wish is for Yash , Rahul , and Rohan to light her funeral pyre together . Therefore , the entire family attends the funeral , and Nandini tells Yash that she thought he was wrong for disowning Rahul . Rohan and Pooja convince Rahul to talk to Yash , who allows him and Anjali into the house . Rohan and Pooja are married and the family hold a belated celebration of Rahul and Anjali 's wedding . 


 = = Cast = = 


 Amitabh Bachchan as Yashvardhan " Yash " Raichand , a New Delhi @-@ based businessman . Fiercely dominating , he insists on controlling the life of his wife and sons . Amitabh Bachchan was Karan 's first choice for the portrayal of Yash Raichand . Karan added , " As I wrote the film , I realised that Yashvardhan Raichand is the backbone of the film and I could only see one actor playing the role — Amitabh Bachchan . " Bachchan , on his part , agreed to do the film without a script narration . Karan mentioned that he was initially scared to direct a star of the stature of Bachchan , but the latter " soon became an actor instead of a superstar " . 

 Jaya Bachchan as Nandini Raichand , Yash 's wife . She shares a close bond with her sons , but remains in the shadow of her husband . According to Karan Johar , Jaya Bachchan was the " obvious " choice for the character of Nandini , and added that her " acting prowess and stature " were the other reasons for him preferring to cast her . The film also marked the return of Amitabh and Jaya Bachchan together on screen after a gap of 18 years . Of her character , she said that Nandini was an extension of her own self . She elaborated , " My personal feelings towards Shah Rukh are similar to what I was supposed to portray in the film . There 's something about him that makes me want to mother him . " She added that she modelled her character on Karan 's mother , Hiroo Johar , who " is a very emotional and sentimental person . " 

 Shah Rukh Khan as Rahul Raichand , Yash and Nandini 's adopted son . He feels indebted to his parents and tries to fulfill all their wishes . However , he falls in love with Anjali and invites the wrath of Yash . When Karan offered the role to Shah Rukh , he immediately agreed to do it and accommodated his dates , despite having several other commitments . Khan described the character of Rahul by saying , " I love the vulnerability and the honesty in his eyes . He has the appeal of a boy next door . Besides , his intensity and ability to convey emotions without words is amazing . " 

 Kajol as Anjali Sharma Raichand , Rahul 's love @-@ interest and later , wife . She is a fun @-@ loving Punjabi woman living in the Chandni Chowk area of Delhi . Belonging to a lower socio @-@ economic group than the Raichand family , she is not accepted by Yash as his daughter @-@ in @-@ law . Karan was initially hesitant to cast Kajol in the film , as he felt that she would refuse the offer due to her recent marriage . Kajol , however , was moved to tears during the script narration and agreed to do the film . In an interview to Filmfare , Kajol said , " One tiny fact that Karan forgot to mention during his narration was just how much Punjabi my character spoke in the film . I nearly died when I saw the lines of dialogue on the first day of shooting . " However , she learnt the right pronunciation and diction with the help of Yash Johar and the crew members . 

 Hrithik Roshan as Rohan Raichand , Yash and Nandini 's biological son . He wants his elder brother , Rahul , to return home . Karan signed Roshan to play the character of Rohan after watching a rough cut of the latter 's debut film , Kaho Naa ... Pyaar Hai ( 2000 ) . Roshan described his character as a " buffer " in a film that primarily focused on Amitabh Bachchan and Shah Rukh Khan . 

 Kareena Kapoor as Pooja " Poo " Sharma , Anjali 's younger sister . She is a sophisticated girl , who helps Rohan in his plan to reunite Rahul with his parents . After spotting Kapoor at a party organised by Bombay Times , Karan decided to cast her immediately for the role of the glamorous diva , Poo . Kapoor stated that in her opinion , Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... was primarily Kajol 's film , and that her own character was a supporting one . In order to prepare for her role , she worked hard on her dancing skills , as she didn 't want audiences to know that she couldn 't dance well . 

 Rani Mukerji as Naina Kapoor , a socialite girl who loves Rahul and wants to marry him , and Yashvardhan approves of her . Following the success of Karan 's previous film , Kuch Kuch Hota Hai ( 1998 ) , which starred Khan , Kajol and Mukerji , he wanted her presence in this film too . He thus cast Mukerji in a guest appearance . Initially , Karan wanted her presence in the film to be a surprise , but an accidental slip by Sony Music during the promotional activities led to her discovery . 

 Farida Jalal as Sayeeda / Daijan ( DJ ) , Rahul and Rohan 's nanny . On the insistence of Nandini , she follows Rahul and Anjali to London . 

 Simone Singh as Rukhsaar , Sayeeda 's daughter and Anjali 's best friend 

 Alok Nath as Bauji Sharma , Anjali and Pooja 's father 

 Kavish Majumdar as the younger Rohan Raichand 

 Malvika Raaj as the younger Pooja Sharma 

 Aryan Khan ( Shah Rukh Khan 's real @-@ life son ) as the younger Rahul ( special appearance ) 

 Jugal Hansraj as Rohan 's friend ( special appearance ) 

 Achala Sachdev and Sushma Seth were cast as Yash and Nandini 's mothers , respectively . The film also featured Johnny Lever as Haldiram ( a shopkeeper in Chandni Chowk ) , Himani Shivpuri as Haldiram 's wife , Jibraan Khan as Krish Raichand ( Rahul and Anjali 's son ) , Amar Talwar as Mr. Kapoor ( Yash 's friend and Naina 's father ) . Ramona Sunavala , Jeroo Writer and Vikas Sethi feature as Poo 's friends Sonya , Tanya and Robbie , respectively . Additionally , Ashutosh Singh features as Ashfaque , Rukshaar 's husband . Shilpa Mehta , Shashikala and Parzan Dastur were cast as Ashfaque 's mother , grandmother and nephew , respectively . 


 = = Production = = 



 = = = Development = = = 


 After the success of Karan 's debut film , Kuch Kuch Hota Hai ( 1998 ) , he began work on a story dealing with the concept of " generations " . The idea initially revolved around two daughters @-@ in @-@ law . However , on the advice of filmmaker Aditya Chopra , who thought that the male characters would be too weak , Karan decided to tweak the story @-@ line to make it the story of two brothers . 

 The inspiration behind Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... came from Yash Chopra 's Kabhi Kabhie ( 1976 ) . On being inspired by the classic , Karan quoted , " What appealed to me was the fact that the love story stretched out across generations . It began with youth and went on as the people grew older . You could say that Kabhi Kabhie is the starting point for my new film , that I am inspired by it . But the film , I am sure , will be very different . It will look different , feel different . " Similarly , Karan added an extra " e " to the second Kabhi in the title of his film , due to numerological reasons . In an interview with The Times of India , Karan dispelled comparisons with Kuch Kuch Hota Hai and said that while his debut film was " frothy and bubble @-@ gummish " , this one was " more classy and sophisticated " . He added that there would be " plenty of drama " in this film too , but handled more maturely . 

 Before principal photography could begin , Karan and the contracted costume designers ( Manish Malhotra , Shabina Khan and Rocky S. ) shopped in several locations of USA , London , Milan , and New Delhi to get the right look for each of the cast members . Additionally , Karan had only one expectation from the contracted actors ; to " look good and do their job " . He did not organise any rehearsals for them , except for a scene involving a climatic encounter between Amitabh Bachchan and Roshan . Additional production people hired included choreographer Farah Khan , production designer Sharmishta Roy and cinematographer Kiran Deohans . 


 = = = Filming = = = 


 The first schedule of the film began in Mumbai on 16 October 2000 , with the picturisation of the song " Bole Chudiyan " involving Roshan , Kapoor , Khan and Kajol . Amitabh and Jaya Bachchan joined the schedule on 20 October . Due to the immense stress caused by the presence of these actors , Karan fainted on the sets . However , he continued directing the rest of the song while lying in bed . 

 For the first half of Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... , the production design team led by Sharmishtha Roy , recreated Chandni Chowk in a studio at Film City of Mumbai . In order to lend authenticity , the team took several pictures of the original area and also shopped in the various alleys of Chandni Chowk . Roy later won Filmfare Award for Best Art Direction her work . The inside of a palatial mansion was developed from scratch in the same studio to double as the home of the Raichand family . In order to lend authenticity to the house of the multi @-@ multimillionaires , several expensive paintings were hung from the walls . A total of 18 – 19 elaborate sets were constructed by Roy , as Karan wanted the look of the film to be " larger @-@ than @-@ life " . 

 The second half of the film was shot in the city of London . Karan chose to set the film there due to his fondness for the city . He added , " I could have based my plot in New York City or anywhere else . But London is kind of close to my heart . I like to weave my films around London . " Shooting locations include the Wales Millennium Centre , Bluewater Complex , Kent , Blenheim Palace , St Paul 's Cathedral and the banks of River Thames . The outdoor scenes of the Raichand family mansion were shot at Waddesdon Manor . The crew faced enormous difficulties while filming an emotional scene between Jaya Bachchan and Khan at the Bluewater Complex , as a massive crowd had gathered there to watch them at work . The situation , eventually , got worse and the complex officials asked them to wrap up the shoot within two hours . 

 Another song sequence ( " Suraj Hua Maddham " ) involving Khan and Kajol was shot with the backdrop of the Pyramids of Giza in the city of Cairo in Egypt . Due to the lighting conditions , the crew could shoot only between 7 and 9 am in the morning . As a result , the song took several days to film . In addition , Kajol suffered from a minor injury while filming for the song , as she had experienced a bad fall . 


 = = Soundtrack = = 


 The music of the film was composed by Jatin Lalit , Sandesh Shandilya and Aadesh Shrivastava . The lyrics were provided by Sameer , except for " Suraj Hua Maddham " which was penned by Anil Pandey . A total of 11 tracks are present in the album , which was released by Sony Music on 16 October 2001 . Explaining the album , Karan Johar said , " I wanted music that had all kinds of tunes — pop , romantic , bhangra – but one sound . It had to be larger than life . " He added that Jatin @-@ Lalit came up with three " haunting melodies " , while Shandilya and Shrivastava came up with the pop and bhangra songs , respectively . A legal suit was filed against Johar for using the song " It 's Raining Men " in the film without obtaining prior permission . 

 Upon release , the soundtrack of Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... emerged as a major success by selling 2 @.@ 5 million units within 30 days . Additionally , it became the largest selling album of the year in India . Writing for Rediff , Sukanya Varma praised most of the compositions , while being critical of the song " Say Shava Shava " due to the " overdose of Punjabi emotions " . She summed up by saying , " The music of K3G has a presence . Hate it or love it , you certainly won 't ignore it . " Planet Bollywood gave it 8 of 10 stars , calling " Suraj Hua Maddham " the best song , and the best reason to buy the album . In 2002 , Sony released another album titled Klub K3G , featuring remixes by Indian electronic music producers Akshai Sarin , Harshdeep Sidhu , Prempal Hans and others . 


 = = Release and reception = = 


 Initially scheduled for a theatrical release during the Diwali celebrations of 2001 , Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... released a month later on 14 December . Due to the long duration of the film , theatres screened three shows daily , instead of four . Additionally , due to a massive rush in advance bookings , several theatres increased their ticket prices . 

 The use of " Jana Gana Mana " by Rabindranath Tagore during the film was met with criticism from a certain section of the audiences , and politicians of the Bharatiya Janata Party , for being " out @-@ of @-@ context " and " insulting the national pride " . Subsequently , a writ was issued against Dharma Productions in the Allahabad High Court by a petitioner based in Uttar Pradesh . However , the court did not entertain the complainant 's petition . 


 = = = Critical reception = = = 



 = = = = India = = = = 


 In India , Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... met with polarised reactions from film critics . While certain critics praised the visual richness and the performances of the cast , certain others were negative about the lengthy run time and criticised the script strength and inconsistencies . Khalid Mohamed of The Times of India applauded the film and reviewed , " K3G is the complete commercial banquet delivered with fabulous finesse by Karan Johar . So , go indulge yourself . Cry your heart out and surprisingly , you 'll feel life 's finally alive and kicking in Mumbai 's dream world . " Taran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama gave the film 4 @.@ 5 out of 5 stars . He praised the emotional sequences , as well as the choreography , production design , costumes , and cinematography . He added that Karan Johar was the real star , for creating many memorable sequences . Rakesh Budhu of Planet Bollywood gave the film 8 out of 10 stars , saying " Dharma Productions has kept its promise in giving us a lovable film to remember in coming times . " He pointed out several flaws in the script , but added that the positive aspects of the film managed to outweigh the negative ones . He quoted , " K3G is one heck of an entertainer and was worth the wait " . In the film review section of his book Bollywood : An Insider 's Guide , Fuad Omar showered overwhelming praise on the film and called it a " masterpiece from the first frame to the last " . In summary he said , " Overall Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... is without a doubt the most enthralling , entertaining , emotional and complete vision and definition of Hindi cinema I have ever seen . It is simply the perfect Hindi film . " 

 Contrary to the positive reviews , Anjum N. , writing for Rediff , said that despite an extraordinary cast and a big budget , " Karan Johar disappoints . " He praised Amitabh and Jaya Bachchan 's performance and noted Hrithik Roshan for holding his own against the veteran actors . However , in summary he called the film " a bad remix of Mohabbatein and Kuch Kuch Hota Hai " . Writing for The Hindu , Ziya Salam praised Kajol 's performance and Karan 's ability to " keep the viewer occupied " . She commented , " Watch Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... not because of the hype which preceded its release but because in these meagre times not many have come up with better fare . The film at least partially redeems the hope surrounding it . Again , just like its name . Some joy , some disappointment . " Namarata Joshi of Outlook gave a mixed review and said that while the film " makes you laugh and cry alternately " , the shenanigans were nevertheless " fake and affected " and " monochromatic despite the profusion of colours " . 


 = = = = Overseas = = = = 


 Overseas too , the reviews were mostly mixed , with several critics praising the technical production details of the film , while being somewhat less enthusiastic about the story line . Shamaila Khan of BBC gave the film 9 out of 10 stars and praised the performances of Khan , Kajol and Kapoor . She summed up by saying , " ( K3G is ) a well made film , with some magical moments ( hilarious and weepy ) and possibly the world 's best looking family ! " Derek Elley of Variety said that it " is a highly enjoyable , often dazzlingly staged vehicle dragged down by a sluggish final half @-@ hour " . He also praised the cinematography , and the picturisation of the song , " Say Shava Shava " . Corey K. Creekmur , of the University of Iowa , said that there were many ignored or illogical plot points and inconsistencies between the moral messages meant to be portrayed and the manner in which they came off on screen . Overall , he called the film a letdown . 


 = = = Box Office = = = 


 Upon release , Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... broke all opening records . The film opened to around ₹ 70 million ( US $ 1 @.@ 0 million ) nett collections in its first weekend in India , with the first week total at around ₹ 140 million ( US $ 2 @.@ 1 million ) . The domestic opening week collections were 70 % higher than the previous record and never before had opening records been eclipsed by such large margins . It also set new records for the second and third weeks , by collecting ₹ 105 million ( US $ 1 @.@ 6 million ) and ₹ 80 million ( US $ 1 @.@ 2 million ) respectively . The film went on to become the second highest grosser of 2001 domestically , netting ₹ 550 million ( US $ 8 @.@ 2 million ) in India , and earning " Blockbuster " status . 

 The film was released in around 125 prints in the overseas markets , grossing a total of $ 8 @.@ 9 million at the end of its theatrical run . It performed very well in the United Kingdom , with a gross of $ 689 @,@ 000 in its opening weekend . It thus debuted at the third position at the British box @-@ office . The total earnings of the film reached over $ 3 @.@ 2 million in the UK . The film also had the biggest opening ever for a Bollywood film in North America , with a gross of $ 1 @.@ 1 million in 73 screens . However , according to a report by Rediff , the numbers were so high that the official reporting agency did not believe it , and asked for evidence that could not be furnished until after the reporting deadline had passed . If reported on time , the film would have opened at the number 10 spot in the North American box @-@ office . However , according to figures from Box Office Mojo , the film debuted at the 32nd place at the American box office during the week of 4 January 2002 . It eventually gathered a total of $ 2 @.@ 9 million there . Additionally , in 2003 , the film became the first from India to be given a theatrical release in Germany . 

 Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... earned a worldwide gross of ₹ 1 @.@ 35 billion ( US $ 20 million ) . It was the highest grossing film of the year worldwide , surpassing Gadar : Ek Prem Katha which was the top grosser in the domestic market . Its record of being the highest grosser abroad was broken only by Johar 's next directorial , Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna ( 2006 ) . When adjusted for inflation , the film is still among the highest grossers worldwide . 


 = = = Accolades = = = 


 Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... received fifteen nominations at the Filmfare Awards , ultimately winning five awards . In an interview with Filmfare , Karan Johar said that he wasn 't dejected to have not won too many awards at the ceremony , as he felt that Lagaan was " a classic " and deserved to win . 

 The film won several awards at the International Indian Film Academy Awards ( IIFA ) , and some at the Zee Cine Awards and Screen Awards ceremonies , among others . Among the cast members , Kajol and Jaya Bachchan won several awards in the Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress category , respectively . At the 13th annual Valenciennes International Film Festival , the film won five major awards , including three Best Film awards and Best Actress for Kajol . 


 = = Analysis = = 


 Film critics and academics have analysed Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... in several ways . In the book , Encyclopedia of Religion and Film , Eric Mazur described several " mythological subtexts " in the film . While mentioning the opening scene of the film , which features the Raichand family worshiping " Hindu deities during the annual Diwali holiday " , he explained that the scene allowed the Hindu audiences to participate in the darshan along with the characters . 

 Author Rajani Mazumdar compared Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... to Hum Aapke Hain Koun .. ! ( 1994 ) and added that the film dealt with themes of family and moral values through a " spectacular stage that moves across global locations " . She further stated that the buildup to the story was juxtaposed with the backdrop of two contrasting places – the Raichand home and the interiors of Chandni Chowk . While the Raichand house is described as " expensive , almost like a museum " , Chandni Chowk is shown as a world of crowds , chaos and festivities . She also made a note of the use of frontal camera angles in order to ensure that the " spectators eye travels throughout the interior expanse " . 

 Writer Sangita Gopal analysed the " intensification of the aesthetic effects of Hindi cinema " in the narrative scheme of the film . During the confrontation scene between Yash and Rahul Raichand , a " thundering background score " coupled with " 360 ° panning shots " were used to build up melodrama . She added that while such scenes simply began by reprising previous face @-@ offs in several melodramatic Hindi films ( such as Mohabbatein of 2000 ) , they gradually shifted " to a more realist register as the framework moves from a sociology to a psychology of the family " . Mazur mentioned the use of " dream sequences " in the film as a means of escapism . He referred to the song " Suraj Hua Maddham " as an extradiegetic sequence that allowed Rahul and Anjali to be physically intimate " in ways that they could not in the real world of the film . " He added that the characters conveyed a plethora of emotions not through extensive dialogue but through the exchange of glances , which were demonstrated by extreme close @-@ ups on their eyes . 

 Writing for the book Movie Blockbusters , Andrew Willis commented that the film was specifically written to appeal to the Indian diaspora . He explained that the film was aimed at invoking nostalgia among the large section of NRI 's in Canada , United Kingdom and North America . In the second half of the film , Rahul and Anjali move to London , where they enjoy an affluent lifestyle , among several non @-@ Indian neighbours and friends . However , there is a perpetual dissatisfaction among them , especially Anjali , in living away from home . Additionally , she dresses up in a traditional sari and performs the duties of a loyal housemaker . She also frets about her son and younger sister being " too influenced " by Western culture . The film , thus tries to form an emotional connection with the expatriate Indian audiences . 

 According to Eckstein several sequences convey a " culturally conservative " and " idealistic image " of India , while maintaining that the diaspora living in Britain lead a life of " involuntary exile " . Western ideology is equated with economic success , with emphasis on Western consumerism such as Starbucks and Burger King . Creekmur believes that Rohan was the only character in the film who could navigate multiple cultural spaces with ease . He seems totally at ease both at his ancestral home in India and in London . Though the tagline for the film was " It 's all about loving your parents " , Creekmur was skeptical and suggested " the film seems to actually admonish stern fathers to trust and love their children — mothers , aunties , and grandmothers , of course , love their children unconditionally even while respecting the idiotic wishes of vain patriarchs . " 


 = = Other media = = 


 During the production and filming process , a book entitled The Making of Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham was written by Niranjan Iyengar . It features materials and interviews concerning the producer , director , photographer , art director , cast and crew that Iyengar gathered over an 18 @-@ month period during the production of the film . The book was released a few days prior to the theatrical release of the film . 

 Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... has been released on VHS and DVD ( one and two disc version ) formats , beginning in 2002 , and in the Blu @-@ ray format beginning in 2010 . The two disc DVD version of the film contains a 45 @-@ minute documentary entitled The Making of Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham along with deleted scenes , a theatrical trailer , and several television promos . 



 = Xu Lai ( actress ) = 


 Xu Lai ( Chinese : 徐来 ; Wade – Giles : Hsü Lai ; 1909 – 4 April 1973 ) was a Chinese film actress , socialite , and World War II secret agent . Known as the " Standard Beauty " , she was active in the film industry for only three years , and quit acting after the suicide of the great star Ruan Lingyu in 1935 . Her first husband was Li Jinhui , the " Father of Chinese pop music " . 

 During the Second Sino @-@ Japanese War , Xu and her second husband , Lieutenant General Tang Shengming , ostensibly served under the Japanese @-@ controlled Nanking puppet regime , but secretly worked as agents for the Republic of China resistance based in Chungking . 

 With the Communist victory in the Chinese Civil War , Xu and Tang defected to the People 's Republic of China , but were severely persecuted during the Cultural Revolution ( 1966 – 76 ) . Xu Lai died in prison in 1973 ; her husband survived and lived until 1987 . 


 = = Early life = = 


 Xu Lai was born 1909 to a poor family in Shanghai . Her original name was Xu Xiaomei ( 徐小妹 ) and she was also called Xu Jiefeng ( 徐洁凤 ) . Due to poverty , she began working at a British @-@ owned egg factory in Zhabei at the age of 13 , but was later able to attend school after her family fortunes improved . 

 In 1927 , Xu attended the China Song and Dance School run by Li Jinhui , who is now considered the " Father of Chinese pop music " . She also joined Li 's Bright Moon Song and Dance Troupe and toured many cities in China and Southeast Asia . She married Li , who was 18 years her senior , in 1930 , and gave birth to a daughter named Xiaofeng . 


 = = Film career = = 


 In 1932 , Xu Lai was recruited by Zhou Jianyun , a cofounder of the Mingxing Film Company , to join the studio . She became famous after starring in the 1933 silent film Remnants of Spring ( 残春 ) , in which she appeared in probably the earliest female bath scene in the history of Chinese cinema . Later that year she starred in A Feather on Mount Tai ( 泰山鸿毛 ) . In 1934 , she starred in Cheng Bugao 's popular patriotic films Romance of Mount Hua ( 华山艳史 ) and Go Northwest ( 到西北去 ) . 

 Xu Lai , together with Wang Renmei and Li Lili , her former colleagues at the Bright Moon Troupe , were the earliest stars to portray the vibrant , wholesome , and sexy " country girl " prototype , which became one of the most popular figures in Chinese cinema , and later inherited by the cinema of Hong Kong . 

 Xu became widely known as the " Standard Beauty " , and a ceremony was held to crown her the " Beauty Queen of the Far East " . The Shanghai Chinese Women 's Association strongly disapproved of her " coronation " . Among the objections raised was that she " shocked the public by exhibiting herself in the nude " , referring to her bath scene . 

 The suicide of actress Ruan Lingyu in 1935 , which caused three other women to commit suicide during her 3 miles ( 4 @.@ 8 km ) long funeral procession , had a major impact on Xu Lai . She quit acting after finishing her last film , The Boatman 's Daughter ( 船家女 ) , directed by Shen Xiling . It was critically acclaimed and considered her best film . 

 The sudden death of her daughter Xiaofeng , also in 1935 , caused a breakdown of her marriage with Li Jinhui and the couple divorced in November of that year . It was an acrimonious divorce and Li requested compensation for the investment he had made in training her . 


 = = Secret agent = = 


 In 1936 , Xu Lai married Tang Shengming ( 唐生明 ) , a Kuomintang Lieutenant General from a prominent Hunanese family . Tang was a notorious playboy and a close friend of Dai Li , chief of the Bureau of Investigation and Statistics ( Juntong ) , the secret service of the Republic of China . Xu 's assistant Zhang Suzhen ( 张素贞 ) , a Juntong secret agent , became Tang 's concubine , and Shanghai tabloids often reported salacious stories of the three sharing the same bed . Tang made sure that Xu Lai introduced Dai Li to the " movie queen " Hu Die , who later became the spy chief 's mistress . 

 A year after her wedding , the Second Sino @-@ Japanese War erupted . The Imperial Japanese Army attacked Shanghai in August 1937 , and the national capital Nanking in December . Tang 's older brother , General Tang Shengzhi , was the chief commander of the doomed defense of Nanking , which resulted in the Nanking Massacre . Tang Shengming , meanwhile , was the deputy commander of Changsha and chief commander of Changde , both in Hunan province . 

 In 1940 , Tang Shengming surrendered to the Japanese and was recruited to serve in the Reorganized National Government of China ( the Wang Jingwei regime ) , a puppet government established by Japan in occupied Nanking . Tang was appointed the commander of public security of Jiangsu province , while Xu was his socialite wife who became a close friend with the wives of Wang Jingwei , Chen Gongbo , and Zhou Fohai , the top leaders of the puppet regime . They were widely condemned by the Chinese public as traitors , and Tang Shengzhi publicly renounced all relationship with his brother and sister @-@ in @-@ law . 

 After the surrender of Japan at the end of World War II , the Kuomintang government revealed that Tang Shengming and Xu Lai had been sent by Dai Li to serve as secret agents in the Wang Jingwei regime . The couple took great personal risks to obtain intelligence about Japanese spies and troop movements and pass it to the resistance . Xu Lai reportedly discovered the identity of a Japanese spy while playing mahjong with Zhou Fohai 's wife , and personally delivered messages to Chinese agents in Shanghai in urgent situations . 


 = = After 1949 = = 


 In 1949 , as it was becoming clear that Mao Zedong 's Communists were winning the Chinese Civil War , Xu Lai moved her family from Shanghai to British Hong Kong , while Tang Shengming went to Changsha to join the surrender of Hunan Governor Cheng Qian to the Communists . His brother Tang Shengzhi also surrendered . In 1950 , Tang Shengming was appointed deputy commander of 21st Group Army of the People 's Liberation Army and fought battles against the Kuomintang troops in Guangdong and Guangxi provinces . 

 In 1956 , Tang was appointed a counsellor of the State Council of the People 's Republic of China , and Xu Lai moved with her husband to Beijing . 

 When the Cultural Revolution started in 1966 , Mao 's wife Jiang Qing , who had been a minor actress in Shanghai during the 1930s , began persecuting many of her former colleagues who were familiar with her " bourgeois " past . Xu Lai and her husband were both imprisoned for unfounded criminal charges . On 4 April 1973 , Xu died in prison after years of torture and maltreatment , at the age of 64 . Tang survived the tumultuous period , and lived until 1987 . 



 = Marcus Morton = 


 Marcus Morton ( 1784 – February 6 , 1864 ) was an American lawyer , jurist , and politician from Taunton , Massachusetts . He served two terms as Governor of Massachusetts and several months as Acting Governor following the death in 1825 of William Eustis . He served for 15 years as an Associate Justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court , all the while running unsuccessfully as a Democrat for governor . He finally won the 1839 election , acquiring exactly the number of votes required for a majority win over Edward Everett . After losing the 1840 and 1841 elections , he and was reelected in another narrow victory in 1842 . 

 The Massachusetts Democratic Party was highly factionalized , which contributed to Morton 's long string of defeats . His brief periods of ascendancy , however , resulted in no substantive Democratic @-@ supported reforms , since the dominant Whigs reversed most of the changes enacted during his terms . An opponent of the extension of slavery , he split with longtime friend John C. Calhoun over that issue , and eventually left the party for the Free Soil movement . He was considered by Martin Van Buren as a potential vice presidential running mate in 1848 . 


 = = Early years = = 


 Morton was born in East Freetown , Massachusetts in 1784 , the only son of Nathaniel and Mary ( Cary ) Morton . Sources report his day of birth to be either February or December 19 . His father was a farmer who was politically active , serving for a time on the Governor 's Council . Morton received his early education at home , and was placed at age fourteen in the academy of Reverend Calvin Chaddock at Rochester , Massachusetts . 

 In 1801 Morton was admitted to Brown University with the sophomore class , and graduated in 1804 . During his time at Brown came to adopt Jeffersonian ideas , making an outspoken anti @-@ Federalist speech at his commencement . He then read law at Taunton for a year in the office of Judge Seth Padelford , after which he entered Tapping Reeve 's law school in Litchfield , Connecticut . There he was a schoolmate of John C. Calhoun , who served as a mentor and friend for many years . Moving back to Taunton , he was admitted to the Norfolk County bar in 1807 and opened a practice . In December of that year he married Charlotte Hodges , with whom he had twelve children . He later received honorary law degrees from Brown ( 1826 ) , and Harvard ( 1840 ) . 


 = = Entry into politics = = 


 Morton honed his partisan skills in Taunton , frequently speaking out against Federalism , which dominated Massachusetts politics . In 1808 Governor James Sullivan offered him the post of district attorney for Bristol County , but he demurred because the office was still held by his teacher , Judge Padelford . He did , however , accept the post when it was offered to him in 1811 by Elbridge Gerry . 

 Morton was nominated by the Democratic @-@ Republicans to run for Congress in 1814 , but lost by a wide margin to Laban Wheaton in what was then seen as a strongly Federalist district . Two years later he was , to some surprise , victorious in a rematch with Wheaton despite Federalist strength in other races . Morton was reelected in 1818 , but narrowly lost to Francis Baylies in 1820 . In Congress he supported Andrew Jackson , whose actions in the Seminole Wars were being scrutinized , and opposed the Missouri Compromise . Morton was personally opposed to slavery , but did not often let it inform his political decisions until later in life ; he preferred instead to focus his efforts on other priorities . Despite this , his written statements on slavery were to become a matter of contentious debate when party factions within the Democratic Party sought to use them against him in the 1840s . In these early years he was also a proponent of free trade ; like many Massachusetts politicians , he later adopted a strong protectionist stance , calling the early period " the lamest ... of my life " . 


 = = Supreme Judicial Court and runs for governor = = 


 In 1823 Morton was elected to the Massachusetts Governor 's Council , and the following year was elected Lieutenant Governor , serving under Republican Governor William Eustis . When Eustis died in office in February 1825 , Morton served as acting governor until the election a few months later . Since the 1824 election had virtually eliminated the Federalist Party as a force in the state , Federalists and wealthy Republicans were coalescing into what became known as the National Republican Party ( predecessor to the Whigs ) . Morton disagreed with this trend ( calling the National Republicans " aristocratic " ) , preferring Jacksonian @-@ style Democracy instead , and refused to stand for election as governor in 1825 . He was , however , prevailed to run again for lieutenant governor , and he won the post , serving under Levi Lincoln Jr . , who had been nominated by both the Republicans and a rump Federalist coalition . Morton was unhappy with what he termed Whig elitism ( he accused Lincoln in 1830 of being a " tool of monied aristocracy " ) , and resigned the lieutenant governorship . Lincoln promptly appointed Morton as an associate justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ( SJC ) , a post he would hold until 1840 . 


 = = = Jurisprudence = = = 


 Morton was the only Democrat on the SJC , all the other justices having been appointed by Federalists . Despite this , Morton wrote a few notable decisions . He wrote the court 's decision in Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge , a case that eventually went to the United States Supreme Court . The plaintiffs were proprietors of the Charles River Bridge , a toll bridge constructed between Boston and Charlestown in 1786 , and the defendants were proprietors of a competing bridge to which the state had issued a charter in 1828 . The plaintiffs argued that the defendant 's charter infringed on their charter , in which they claimed the state granted them an exclusive right to control the crossing . The SJC split 2 – 2 , and dismissed the case so that it could be heard by the Supreme Court . Morton wrote the decision favoring the defendants , pointing out that if the state was going to grant an exclusive right , it had to do so explicitly , and it had not done so in this case . This reasoning was upheld in 1837 by the Taney Supreme Court . 

 In 1838 Morton was the lone dissenter in Commonwealth v. Kneeland , the last time in the nation that someone was convicted of blasphemy . Abner Kneeland , a vitriolic former Universalist minister turned pantheist , had made statements Christians found offensive . Convicted by the trial court , Kneeland had appealed , and two more highly politicized trials ended in hung juries before the conviction was upheld in appeals . The full SJC took up the case in March 1836 . Kneeland , representing himself , argued that the statements he made did not rise to level specified by the statute , and argued that the statute violated the First Amendment to the United States Constitution . Chief Justice Lemuel Shaw , writing for the court majority , found that Kneeland 's speech satisfied the legal definition of blasphemy , and by narrow construction found that the law did not violate the state constitution 's protections of free speech and religion . In his dissent Morton argued for a more liberal reading of the Article 2 of the state constitution ( which addressed religious freedoms ) , and argued that every person " has a constitutional right to discuss the subject of God , to affirm or deny his existence . I cannot agree that a man may be punished for wilfully doing what he has a legal right to do . " Governor Edward Everett refused to pardon Kneeland , who served sixty days in prison . The case is now one of the most frequently cited American cases on blasphemy . 


 = = = Perennial candidate for governor = = = 


 The political situation in the late 1820s and 1830s was quite fluid . The Democrats were highly factionalized , with three major groups vying with one another for control of the party apparatus . Morton 's support base consisted mainly of farmers , industrial and shipyard laborers , and recent immigrants . A second faction , dominated by Theodore Lyman , consisted of merchants and wealthy coastal interests opposed to Whig interests . The third faction , which successfully controlled the party apparatus in its early years , was headed by David Henshaw , who had split from the John Quincy Adams camp over political aspects of the bridge controversy . Henshaw was the principal party organizing force , while Morton became a perennial gubernatorial candidate , running for the office each year from 1828 to 1843 . The party was supported in its organizing efforts by Morton 's friend John Calhoun , who served as Vice President under Adams and Jackson . Morton generally did no overt campaigning , sensitive to maintaining the appearance of neutrality as a judge . 

 Morton was never able to make significant electoral inroads on Lincoln 's majorities in the years the latter held the governor 's seat ( 1825 – 34 ) . This was principally because opposition to the National Republicans was fragmented , exemplified by the Free Bridge Party and the Anti @-@ Masonic Party , the latter of which in particular siphoned off significant numbers of Democratic votes in the 1832 election . Despite attempts by both the National Republicans and the Democrats to woo the Anti @-@ Masons into their fold , neither was able to . Morton was mildly anti @-@ Mason , but Henshaw was a Freemason , and Morton apparently did not recognize the potential power of the Anti @-@ Masons despite their significant electoral showing . As a result , the Democrats lacked the voting strength to unseat the National Republicans . The Democrats were also splintered in 1832 and 1833 , when the Working Men 's Party drew support by attacking both of the larger parties for their lack of attention to labor issues . Morton was sufficiently disheartened by his repeated failures that he considered abandoning his quest for the governorship in 1832 ; Henshaw convinced him to soldier on . In 1831 Morton broke ranks with his friend John Calhoun over the latter 's support for nullification , which Morton believed was based on his support for slavery . This also caused fractures in the Massachusetts Democratic Party , with Henshaw siding with Calhoun and the southern Democrats . 

 The closest Morton came to victory before 1839 was in the 1833 election , when Lincoln stepped down . In a four @-@ way race involving Worcester Congressman John Davis ( running as a National Republican ) and John Quincy Adams ( running as an Anti @-@ Mason ) as his principal opponents ( along with a Working Men 's candidate ) , none of the candidates received the required majority . The state legislature chose Davis , the largest vote @-@ getter , after Adams withdrew in Davis ' favor . 

 By the late 1830s activists for the abolition of slavery had grown into a potent political force in the state . Both Whigs and Democrats ( including Morton ) had avoided the issue in pursuit of other political objectives , but abolitionists began regularly requesting formal statements from candidates for office on the subject . Morton was known to be personally opposed to slavery , and this gained him votes in the 1837 and 1838 elections despite the vacillating answers he gave to such requests . His opponent in those elections , Edward Everett , was also opposed to slavery , but had in 1826 made a speech sympathetic to the rights of slaveholders , which was used against him . Morton 's faction within the Democratic Party also gained strength due to the organizational skill of historian George Bancroft , and successful moves spearheaded by Morton to change the methods by which lower @-@ level party leaders were chosen . David Henshaw resigned from the politically important post as the collector of the Port of Boston in 1837 , starting a struggle within the party for this valuable patronage plum . Morton was one several potential recipients , but eventually dropped out , suggesting it go instead to George Bancroft . Bancroft , from the western part of the state , attracted support from the Working Men into the Democratic fold . 


 = = Governor = = 


 In the 1839 election , an unrelated issue came up that finally gave Morton a victory . The Whig legislature had passed a bill promoted by temperance activists that banned the sale of liquor in quantities less than 15 US gallons ( 57 l ) ; this effectively outlawed service over a bar . The bill was seen by many as an instance of class elitism by the Whigs . The vote was so close that a recount was performed , and ballots were carefully scrutinized . One ballot counted for Morton contained the scrawl " Maccus Mattoon " ; despite efforts by Whig partisans to deny that the writer intended to vote for Morton , no person with that name was found anywhere in the state . Everett graciously refused to persist in contesting the balloting , and Morton was certified the winner with 51 @,@ 034 votes ( exactly half those cast ) to 50 @,@ 725 for Everett ( with another 307 votes being scattered ) . 

 With a hostile Whig @-@ dominated legislature , Morton 's reform agenda went nowhere . Proposals such as reductions in the poll tax and the number of capital crimes were defeated , but the Democrats were able to introduce some fiscal discipline and produced the first budget surplus in some years . The Whigs attacked his proposals as poor economic policy , and regrouped to focus on defeating him in 1840 . They convinced John Davis to return from the U.S. Senate to run against him , and Morton went down to defeat by a wide margin . He made some gains in the 1841 rematch . In 1842 the candidate of the upstart Liberty Party , an abolitionist party , secured enough votes to send the election to the state legislature . Because of the third party there were also a large number of vacancies in the state senate which was to choose the winner . The Liberty Party hoped to use its position in the balance of power to control the outcome , but a single Whig defector in the vote to fill the senate led to a Democratic majority in the chamber . The senate then went on to choose Morton as governor . 

 Morton once again called for a series of reforms , repeating those from 1840 , and including a proposal to transfer the tax burden from real to personal property . He was criticized by the Whigs for omitting any mention of slavery in his inaugural address . During his term the leaders of the various Democratic factions squabbled over executive and party appointments , and the death of President William Henry Harrison shortly after taking office brought on further party divisions as potential presidential nominees canvassed the state for support . As a consequence , much of the reform agenda was either not implemented at all , or only minimally , despite a nominally working Democratic @-@ Liberty coalition majority in the legislature . George Bancroft bemoaned the lost opportunity : " Never had a party a better opening than we have in Massachusetts , if all would but profit by our position . But they will not . " 

 In the 1843 election Morton was set against George N. Briggs , a Whig lawyer from rural Berkshire County , who was chosen to counter Morton 's appeal to rural voters . The Liberty candidate again won enough votes to deny either Briggs ( who won a 3 @,@ 000 vote plurality ) or Morton a majority , and the election was sent to the legislature . The legislature had been returned to Whig control , and thus elected Briggs . The Whigs promptly undid most of the few reforms that were enacted during Morton 's term . 


 = = Later years = = 


 Following his 1843 defeat , Morton finally decided to stop running for governor , yielding the nomination in 1844 to George Bancroft . In September 1844 he traveled to neighboring Rhode Island , where he agitated for the release of Thomas Wilson Dorr , the leader of Dorr 's Rebellion who had been sentenced to hard labor . Democratic sympathies for Dorr were used as ammunition against them by the Whigs in subsequent elections . 

 In 1845 President James K. Polk appointed Morton collector of the port of Boston ; he served four years . Approval of his nomination in the U.S. Senate became somewhat controversial , with southern Senators objecting to him because of earlier statements he had made in opposition to slavery . Even before his appointment was approved , he began using the politi